The Tax Wizard consolidates all remittance events into a single area and provides a step-by-step process for paying and filing with each Remittance Agency. The remittance events are displayed in chronological order according to due date; however events that have not passed their end date are grayed out.
 
To process an Event through the Tax Wizard:
	Click Payroll, then click Tax Wizard in the main menu to open Tax Wizard.
	On each step of the tax wizard, click on the icons one by one to perform actions that apply to that step. Some of the actions are optional and depending on the type of event, the number of actions available for each step will vary.
	To move to the next step, click the blue right arrow   at the bottom of the screen to advance to the next step or click the blue left arrow   to go back to the previous step. Clicking on these arrows does nothing more than move you from one step to another.
	When the necessary steps have been completed, click on the green checkmark   to process the event and close the tax wizard.
 
Examples of how to process events using the Tax Wizard (see below):
	United States
	IRS 941 Payment
	W2 (Filing)
	Canada
	CRA Source Deductions Payment
	T4 (Filing)
 
United States
Processing a 941 Payment to the Internal Revenue Agency (IRS):
STEP	ACTION
Payroll -> Tax Wizard	Open the Tax Wizard.
Tax Wizard	Highlight the event "US - Internal Revenue Agency (IRS), 941 Payment". If you have more than one legal entity, verify that this event is for the appropriate legal entity.
ICON	NOTES
Edit Remittance Agency
(Optional)	In the event of incorrect dates, edit the US - IRS remittance agency and the 941 event to make corrections.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.

Review and Verify Information	ICON	NOTES
Summary Report	View the Form 941 Report to verify the information is correct.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.
Submit Verified Information	ICON	NOTES
Report	Generate the 941 Report to file manually.
Make Payment	Navigates to the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS) website to make the payment.
Click the green checkmark   to complete the 941 Payment processing.
 
Processing W2 (Filing):
STEP	ACTION
Payroll -> Tax Wizard	Open the Tax Wizard.
Tax Wizard	Highlight the event "US - Social Security Administration (SSA), W2 - Filing". If you have more than one legal entity, verify that this event is for the appropriate legal entity.
ICON	NOTES
Edit Remittance Agency
(Optional)	In the event of incorrect dates, edit the US - SSA remittance agency and W2 - Filing event to make corrections.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.

Review and Verify Information	ICON	NOTES
Summary Report	View the Remittance Summary Report and verify the information is correct.
W2 Forms	Generate W2 forms, review and verify all necessary boxes are properly filled out.
Form Setup (Optional)	If the W2 report or forms are not displaying the required information, use this form setup to make adjustments and regenerate the W2 form.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.
Submit Verified Information	ICON	NOTES
Download eFile	Downloads the electronic file to the computer in the format the agency requires. Save the file.
Upload eFile	Navigates to the Social Security Online website. Locate the saved efile which was previously downloaded in the above step, and upload it to the agency.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.
Publish Information for Employees	ICON	NOTES
Publish	Publishes an electronic W2 form for employees to access online with their own sign in under Payroll -> Government Documents.
Print employee Forms (Optional)	If you would rather distribute hard copies of W2's, this generates a PDF file that can be printed and then distributed to employees by hand or mail.
Click the green checkmark   to complete the W2 processing.
NOTE:   W-2C forms are not processed through the Tax Wizard. Refer to W-2C forms for instructions on how to process them.
 
Canada
Processing a Source Deductions Payment to Canada Revenue Agency (CRA):
STEP	ACTION
Payroll -> Tax Wizard	Open the Tax Wizard.
Tax Wizard	Highlight the event "CA - Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), Source Deduction Payment". If you have more than one legal entity, verify that this event is for the appropriate legal entity.
ICON	NOTES
Edit Remittance Agency
(Optional)	In the event of incorrect dates, edit the CA - CRA remittance agency and the Source Deduction Payment event to make corrections.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.

Review and Verify Information	ICON	NOTES
Summary Report	View the Remittance Summary Report and verify the information is correct.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.
Submit Verified Information	ICON	NOTES
Report	Generate the Remittance Summary Report if you are filing manually.
Make Payment	Navigates to CRA website to make the payment.
Click the green checkmark   to complete the Source Deduction payment processing.
Processing T4 (Filing):
STEP	ACTION
Payroll -> Tax Wizard	Open the Tax Wizard.
Tax Wizard	Highlight the event "CA - Canada Revenue Agency (CRA), T4 (Filing)". If you have more than one legal entity, verify that this event is for the appropriate legal entity.
ICON	NOTES
Edit Remittance Agency
(Optional)	In the event of incorrect dates, edit the CA - CRA remittance agency and the T4 (Filing) event to make corrections.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.

Review and Verify Information	ICON	NOTES
Summary Report	View the T4 Summary Report and verify the information is correct.
T4 Forms	Generate T4 forms, review and verify all necessary boxes are properly filled out.
Form Setup (Optional)	If the T4 report or forms are not showing the correct information, use this form setup to make adjustments and regenerate the T4 form.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.
Submit Verified Information	ICON	NOTES
Download eFile	Downloads the electronic file in the format the agency requires to the computer. Save the file.
Upload eFile	Navigates to the CRA website. Locate the saved efile which was previously downloaded in the above step, and upload it to the agency.
Click the blue right arrow   to go to the next step.
Publish Information for Employees	ICON	NOTES
Publish	Publishes an electronic T4 for employees to access online with their own sign in under Payroll -> Government Documents.
Print employee Forms (Optional)	If you would rather distribute hard copies of T4's, this generates a PDF file that can be printed and then distributed to each employee by hand or mail.
Click the green checkmark   to complete the T4 processing.
 
Permission Groups
MAIN MENU >   Company > Permission Groups
Permission groups allow employers to grant or restrict access to TimeTrex features for the employees assigned to that group. You can restrict access to documents so employees can read them, but not edit them. You can grant edit access to supervisors only.
NOTE:   When creating a permission group, you specify a Level for that group. Level is extremely important for security because any employee having access to modify a permission group can only change their permission group to another group with a lower level than their own.
For example, a supervisor having a permission group of Level 10 can assign their subordinates to any Level of 10 or lower, but not assign anyone or themselves to a higher level group. Permission levels should start at Level 1 for the lowest access (Terminated Employee) and go to Level 100 for the highest access (Administrator).
TimeTrex has a granular permissions system with hundreds of different permissions that interface with each another. The following are the standard permission groups that are useful for most companies.
	Terminated Employee: Used only for viewing historical data, such as government documents(T4/W2) and pay stubs after the employee has been terminated.
	Regular Employee (Punch In/Out): Punch in/out and view their own timesheets, schedules, accrual balances, government documents and pay stubs.
	Regular Employee (Manual Punch): Manually enter punch times and view their own timesheets, schedules, accrual balances, government documents and pay stubs.
	Regular Employee (Manual TimeSheet): Manually enter total time worked per day and view their own timesheets, schedules, accrual balances, government documents and pay stubs.
	Supervisor (Subordinates Only): View and edit the timesheets, punches, schedules, and requests of their subordinates, based on the established hierarchy.
	Supervisor (All Employees): Identical to the previous supervisor group, except that it can view and edit the timesheets, punches, schedules, and requests of all employees.
	HR Manager: View and edit qualifications and recruitment information for job applicants. They are restricted from changing policies.
	Payroll Administrator: View and edit all timesheets, punches, etc., for all employees. They are restricted from changing policies.
	Administrator: Full rights to everything.
It is recommended to modify permissions only when consulting a support representative. If you make any changes, verify the outcome to ensure your overall system configuration remains intact.
 
NOTE:  You can assign an employee to only one permission group at a time.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
To add a Permission Group, do the following:
	Click Company, then click Permission Groups in the main menu.
	Click New in the button bar.
	Complete the fields on the inset page (for a description of all the fields see the table below).
	In the Employees drop-down, choose the employees that belong to this permission group by moving the names of the employees into the Selected Items box.
	Choose Permissions by moving the permissions into the Selected Items box or use the Permission Wizard by clicking on the three-dot More button  in the top-right corner of the screen.
	Click Save in the button bar to save your changes, or click Cancel to discard the changes.
 
Permission Group Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Name	Enter a name for the permission group.
Description	Enter a description.
Level	Select a level. Level 1 is the lowest (Terminated Employee) and 100 has the highest (Administrator)
Employees	Select the employees that belong to this permission group. Move the names of the employees into the Selected Items column.
Permissions	Select the permissions to assign to the group.

WARNING:   Use extreme caution when editing your own group so you don't remove the permissions you need to administer TimeTrex.
 
Permission Actions
ACTIONS	DESCRIPTION
Add	Permission to add for all employees.
View	Permission to view for all employees.
View Own	Permission to view only your own.
View Subordinate	Permission to view for all subordinates, as set up in the Hierarchy.
Edit	Permission to edit for all employees.
Edit Own	Permission to edit only your own.
Edit Subordinate	Permission to edit for all subordinates, as set up in the Hierarchy.
Delete	Permission to delete for all employees.
Delete Own	Permission to delete only your own.
Delete Subordinate	Permission to delete for all subordinates, as set up in the Hierarchy.
 
 
Permission Wizard
The Permission Wizard is a filtering system that streamlines the process of customizing Permission Groups, making it significantly more efficient than manually selecting from the hundreds of available permission objects within TimeTrex.
 
NOTE:  Before using the Permission Wizard, it is recommended that you review the Permission Groups and Hierarchy topics and consider consulting a support representative to avoid inadvertently removing any critical permissions.
Using the Permission Wizard to add or edit permissions:
	In the main menu, click on Company, then Permission Groups.
	To add a new Permission Group, click New.
or
	To edit a Permission Group, select a Permission Group then click Edit.
	Click on the three-dot More button  in the top-right corner of the screen, then select Permission Wizard.
	Follow the steps in the Permission Wizard as shown in the table below. After completing each step, click on the blue right arrow   at the bottom of the screen to move forward to the next step. To revisit a previous step, use the blue left arrow  . These arrows are solely for navigating between steps.
Permission Wizard
STEPS	DESCRIPTION
Choose role and permission actions	From the Role drop-down menu, select a role that closely matches how you want to customize permissions. For example, if you want to add scheduling permissions to a supervisor you might choose Supervisor (All Employees).
From the Permissions drop-down menu, select permission actions such as Add, View, Edit.
Choose modules and sub-modules	Permissions available for the features or modules and sub-modules available within the system.
Would you like to allow, deny or simply highlight the chosen permissions	OPTION	DESCRIPTION
Allow	Allow the permissions chosen in the wizard.
Deny	Denies the permissions chosen in the wizard. Used for deselecting permissions.
Highlight Only	Permissions matching the criteria specified in the wizard are highlighted. These highlighted permissions may appear in either drop-down box and can be easily moved between them by selecting or deselecting the desired permissions. It is recommended to use the Highlight Only option if you intend on editing more than one or two permissions because it gives you the opportunity to view and double check before actually allowing or denying the permissions.


Complete the wizard	Click on the green checkmark   to finish setting up permissions in the wizard.

	Click on the Save button to save the permissions you selected or Cancel to ignore the changes.
 
The following are examples of how to use the Permission Wizard to select permissions:
Example 1:
If you want Regular Employees to be able to see all employee's schedules:
	Select a preset Regular Employee Permission Group and then click Edit.
	Open the Permission Wizard and choose the following:
	Role = CUSTOM
	Permissions = "View"
	Modules = "Schedule"
	Sub-Modules = "Schedule"
	Select "Highlight Only" to highlight those permissions that match the criteria chosen.
	In this example the highlighted schedule permissions are displayed in the Selected Items box. You can manually move the any highlighted permissions to the Unselected box if needed since they are only highlighted. The "Allow" option will automatically select the permissions and "Deny" will remove the permissions.
	Click on the green checkmark   to close the wizard.
	Click on Save.
 
Example 2:
If you want to add Job Tracking permissions for a Supervisor (Subordinates Only):
	Double click the preset Role "Supervisor (Subordinates Only)" permission group
	Open the Permission Wizard and choose the following:
	Permissions = "Add, View Subordinate, Edit Subordinate"
	Modules = "Job Tracking"
	Sub-Modules = "Jobs, Job Tasks and Job Reports"
	Select "Highlight Only" to highlight those permissions that match the criteria chosen
	Move any of the highlighted permissions you want to allow, to the Selected Items box.
	Click on the green checkmark   to close the wizard.
	Click on Save.
 
 Company Information
MAIN MENU >   Company > Company Information
The Company feature allows you to edit and save all the information specific to your company. This information is very important and must be kept current and accurate at all times, especially the contact information.
Company Information Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Product Edition	Select the product edition that is installed from the drop-down box.
PRODUCT EDITION	DESCRIPTION
Community	Select this option if the installed product is the Community Edition.
Professional	Select this option if the installed product is the Professional Edition.
Corporate	Select this option if the installed product is the Corporate Edition.
Enterprise	Select this option if the installed product is the Enterprise Edition.


Full Name	Enter the full name of the company.
Short Name	Enter a short version of the company name.
Industry	Select the industry from the drop-down box.
Address (Line 1)	Enter the first line of the company address.
Address (Line 2)	Enter the second line of the company address.
City	Enter the city.
Country	Select the country.
Province/State	Select the province or state.
Postal/Zip Code	Enter the postal code or zip code.
Phone	Enter the phone number.
Fax	Enter the fax number.
Administrative Contact	Select the administrative contact name.
Billing Contact	Select the billing contact name.
Primary Support Contact	Select the primary support contact name.
Disable Terminated Employees	Used to calculate a consistent Sign in Expire Date for terminated employees. These fields determine a date to start counting from, to which the number of days entered in the field below, 'Disable Terminated Employees Sign In After' will be added. One of the purposes for employees to sign in to TimeTrex after they have been terminated is to give them enough time to view their timesheets, pay stubs, and government documents (ie: T4, W2, ROE).
DISABLE TERMINATED EMPLOYEES	DESCRIPTION
Following Year of Termination	Start counting from Dec 31st of the year an employee is terminated.
For example, if the employee termination date is any day in 2019 and the number of days set in the 'Disable Terminated Employees Sign In After' field is 180, the employees sign in will be disabled 180 days from Dec 31st or on 28-Jun-2020.
Following Termination Date	Start counting from the actual employee termination date.
For example, if the employee termination date is 14-Mar-19, and the number of days set in the 'Disable Terminated Employees Sign In After' field is 180, the sign in will be disabled 10-Sep-19. In this example the sign in is disabled before the end of the calendar year, therefore the employee may not have any year end government documents (ie: T4, W2, ROE) to view for 2019 yet. If the termination date is 14-Nov-19, the sign in will be disabled on 12-May-20.

Disable Terminated Employees Sign In After	Enter the number of days that will be used to calculate a date that a terminated employee will no longer be able to sign in. The number of days entered here will be added to either the last day of the year of termination or the termination date (see examples above).
Logo	Upload an image file containing the company logo.


Password Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Password Policy	Select the status of the password policy.
PASSWORD POLICY	DESCRIPTION
Disabled	The password policy is inactive.
Enabled	The password policy is active.


Minimum Permission Level	From the drop-down box select a number to represent the minimum permission level. See also Permission Groups.
Minimum Strength	Select the strength of the password, either High, Medium, or Low from the drop-down box. The higher the strength, the longer or more special/uppercase characters and numbers the password must have.
Minimum Length	Enter the minimum number of characters/numbers for the password length.
Minimum Age	Enter the number of days for the minimum age of the password.
Maximum Age	Enter the number of days for the maximum age of the password.


LDAP Authentication Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
LDAP Authentication	LDAP AUTHENTICATION	DESCRIPTION
Disabled	Select this option when LDAP is disabled.
Enabled-w/Local Fallback	Select this option when LDAP is enabled with local fallback.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Server	Enter the server name.
Port	Enter the port number
Bind User Name	Enter the user name.
Bind Password	Enter the password.
Base DN	Enter the DN.
Bind Attribute	Enter the bind attribute.
User Filter	Enter the user filter.
Login Attribute	Enter the login attribute.

Enabled-LDAP Only	Select this option when only LDAP is enabled. (same fields as above.)



 
SAML Authentication Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
SAML Authentication	SAML AUTHENTICATION	DESCRIPTION
Disabled	Select this option to disable Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML ) Authentication.
Enabled-SP	Select this option to enable Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) Authentication with a Service Provider (SP). When enabled, two TimeTrex URL's are provided to be used in your SSO setup.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
TimeTrex Reply (ACS) URL	Copy and paste this URL into your SSO service provider's settings page.
TimeTrex Logout Redirect URL	Copy and paste this URL into your SSO service provider's settings page.
Issuer (Entity ID) URL	This information is available from your SSO service provider.
Login (SSO) URL	
Logout (SLO) URL	
x:509 Certificate	




 
Legal Entities
MAIN MENU >   Company > Legal Entities
A Legal Entity is any entity that has legal rights and responsibilities from a payroll perspective. The legal entity information such as trade name and address will appear on pay stubs and tax forms. TimeTrex supports more than one Legal Entity.
To add a new Legal Entity:
	Click Company, then click Legal Entities.
	Click New in the button bar.
	Complete the fields and click the Save button.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Legal Entity Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Status	Select a status for the legal entity.
STATUS	DESCRIPTION
Active	This entity is an active business.
Closed	This entity is no longer an active business.


Type	The business structure of the legal entity such as partnership, corporation etc.
Classification Code	The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) classification code for this legal entity.
Legal Name	The full legal, registered name of this entity.
Trade Name	The name under which this entity does business, other than the legal name. Often referred to as "doing business as" or "dba".
Start Date (Optional)	The date this legal entity began business.
End Date (Optional)	The date this legal entity ceased business.
Logo	Upload an image file containing the legal entity logo.

 
 

Multiple Legal Entities compared to Separate Companies
 
Multiple Legal Entities
When to Use	Why
If more than one legal entity has similar policies.	Saves time setting up policies and processing tax forms.
If the same persons are administering payroll for more than one legal entity.	Saves time signing in/out as only one instance of TimeTrex is required.
If it is beneficial to have data from multiple entities appear on the same report.	To easily produce comparison reports with data from multiple entities. Pay stubs and tax forms can be generated for more than one entity at the same time, while still displaying the appropriate trade name and address associated with each entity.
If there is no intention to separate or sell a legal entity in the near future.	There would be more work involved to separate the legal entities.
 
Separate Companies
When to Use	Why
If each company has different policies.	More time is required to set up two or more separate companies.
If there are different personnel administrating payroll for each company.	Payroll personnel only see the company data and employees they deal with.
If complete data separation is important and you will never need a single report that includes data from each company.	Reports cannot include data from more than one company.
If future plans include separating companies, for reasons such as, selling one particular company.	There is no extra work involved since the data is already separated.
 
 
 

Branches
MAIN MENU >   Company > Branches
A Branch identifies the physical location where the employees are punching in or out. For time recording, TimeTrex recommends at least one branch, or location be added. If there are multiple branches, each one should be added.
An employee can be assigned to a single default branch in their Employee Record. This will be the branch used for this employee across the entire application unless otherwise specified.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Branch Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Status	Select a status from the drop-down. Employees can only track their time to branches that are Enabled..
STATUS	DESCRIPTION
Enabled	Allowed to be used by employees for punching In /Out.
Disabled	Not allowed to be used by employees for punching In /Out.


Name	Enter a name for the branch.
Code	Numeric Code used to identify this branch by the employees when they punch In or Out. The system automatically increases to the next number in sequence, or the administrator can use a different value.
Address, City, Country, Province/State, Postal/Zip Code, Phone & Fax	Enter or select the address, phone and fax numbers for the branch.
Allowed GEO Fences	Select the GEO Fences that the employee is allowed to work within for the branch.
Tags	Enter a descriptive tag. Separate each tag with a comma.

 
Employee Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Employee Groups	There are two drop-down fields to complete:
EMPLOYEE GROUPS	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Select the Employee Groups that are eligible to work in this branch.
Selection	Select the groups for this branch (ie: Executives, Non-exempt hourly, etc.). If All Groups was selected in the above Selection Type drop-down, then leave this field blank.


Employee Titles	There are two drop-down fields to complete:
EMPLOYEE TITLES	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Select the employee Titles that are eligible to work in this branch.
Selection	Select the titles for this branch (ie: carpenter, electrician, etc.). If All Titles was selected in the above Selection Type drop-down, then leave this field blank.

Default Branch	There are two drop-down fields and a check box to complete:
BRANCHES	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Select the employee default branches that are eligible to work in this branch.
Selection	Select the default branches that employees are assigned to that can use this branch. If All Default Branches was selected in the above Selection Type drop-down, then leave this field blank.
Include This Branch	Check the box to enable this option, which sets TimeTrex to always include the Default Branch, as defined in each employee's record.


Default Department	There are two drop-down fields to complete:
DEPARTMENTS	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Select the default departments that are eligible for this branch.
Selection	Select the default departments that employees are assigned to that can use this branch. If All Default Departments was selected in the above Selection Type drop-down, then leave this field blank.


Include Employees	If there are additional employees that were not included by the criteria selected above, you can include them here.
For example, if you setup the above criteria to allow all employees who have the title of Carpenter to work on this branch, but you want to include just one Construction Manager, you would use this field to include that one employee. If you are unsure, do not select any employees, as by default all employees are eligible.
Exclude Employees	If there are employees that are included in the above criteria that you wish to be excluded from this branch, you can exclude them here.
For example, if you setup the above criteria to allow all employees in the Human Resources group work on this branch, but you want to exclude just one employee from this group, you would use this field to exclude that one employee. If you are unsure do not select any employees, as by default all employees are eligible.

 
 

Departments
MAIN MENU >   Company > Departments
A Department identifies a functional unit within your company. You can assign employees to the departments that match their work roles, or configure the departments in the best way that fits your organization. You can add one or more departments.
An employee can be assigned to a single default department in their Employee Record. This will be the department used for this employee across the entire application unless otherwise specified.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Department Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Status	Select a status from the drop-down. Employees can only track their time to departments that are Enabled..
STATUS	DESCRIPTION
Enabled	Allowed to be used by employees for punching In /Out.
Disabled	Not allowed to be used by employees for punching In /Out.


Name	Enter a name for the department.
Code	Numeric Code used to identify this department by the employees when they punch In or Out. The system automatically increases to the next number in sequence, or the administrator can use a different value.
Allowed GEO Fences	Select the GEO Fences that the employee is allowed to work within for the department.
Tags	Enter a descriptive tag. Separate each tag with a comma.

 
Employee Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Employee Groups	There are two drop-down fields to complete:
EMPLOYEE GROUPS	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Select the Employee Groups that are eligible to work on this department.
Selection	Select the employee groups for this department. If All Employee Groups was selected in the above Selection Type drop-down, then leave this field blank.


Employee Titles	There are two drop-down fields to complete:
TITLES	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Select the employee Titles that are eligible to work on this department.
Selection	Select the titles for this department (ie: carpenter, electrician, etc.). If All Titles was selected in the above Selection Type drop-down, then leave this field blank.

Punch Branch	There are two drop-down fields to complete:
BRANCHES	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Select the branch the punch time will be recorded against.
Selection	Select the branches for this department (ie: New York, Seattle, etc.). If All Punch Branches was selected in the above Selection Type drop-down, then leave this field blank.


Default Department	There are two drop-down fields and a check box to complete:
DEPARTMENTS	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Select the default departments that are eligible for this department.
Selection	Select the default departments that employees are assigned to that can use this department. If All Default Departments was selected in the above Selection Type drop-down, then leave this field blank.
Include This Department	Check the box to enable this option, which sets TimeTrex to always include the Default Department, as defined in each employee's record.


Include Employees	If there are additional employees that were not included by the criteria selected above, you can include them here.
For example, if you setup the above criteria to allow all employees who have the title of Carpenter to work on this department, but you want to include just one Construction Manager, you would use this field to include that one employee. If you are unsure, do not select any employees, as by default all employees are eligible.
Exclude Employees	If there are employees that are included in the above criteria that you wish to be excluded from this department, you can exclude them here.
For example, if you setup the above criteria to allow all employees in the Human Resources group work on this department, but you want to exclude just one employee from this group, you would use this field to exclude that one employee. If you are unsure do not select any employees, as by default all employees are eligible.

 
 

Hierarchy
MAIN MENU >   Company > Hierarchy
Hierarchy defines the relationship between a superior and the subordinates within your company. You can establish a hierarchy for different types of objects: Requests, Exception Notifications, Timesheet Verification, and Permissions. By establishing a hierarchy, superiors can view data for only the subordinates that were assigned to them by the administrator.
For example, if an employee submits a request to their supervisor, the supervisor authorizes the request and passes it to the payroll administrator for final approval. In TimeTrex, the supervisor for this employee is found in the hierarchy definition.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Hierarchy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Objects	Hierarchy Objects define which types of objects the hierarchy controls.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Request	When a subordinate submits a request, the superiors assigned to the hierarchy for requests will be able to authorize those requests.
Permission	When a superior is assigned to the Supervisor (Subordinates Only) Permission Groups, they will only be able to access subordinates defined in the same hierarchy.
TimeSheet	If timesheet verification is enabled in the Pay Period Schedule, this object type controls which superiors are able to verify their subordinates' timesheets.
Exception	When Exception Policies are configured to email superiors when an exception is triggered, the superior(s) at the bottom of the hierarchy (those with the highest level number) will receive the emailed notification.
Expense	When a subordinate submits an expense, the superiors assigned to the hierarchy for expenses will be able to authorize those expenses before they are reimbursed.


Subordinates	Defines the subordinate employees, who can only be assigned to a single hierarchy with the same objects at a time.
Superiors	Defines the superiors, who may be assigned to multiple hierarchies. Superiors at the top of the hierarchy (Level 1) are the final level to authorize requests, and the superiors at the bottom level are the first to authorize requests. Requests move up the hierarchy from the bottom to the top as they are authorized by each level. Superiors at the same level share responsibilities, and either superior can authorize requests.
A higher level (lower number) superior can temporarily drop one or more levels to authorize a request on behalf of a lower level superior, in a situation where the lower level superior is away and unable to authorize requests at the time i.e.)
	a Level 2 Superior drops down to a level 3 and authorizes a request, thus skipping level 3, resulting in the request pending final authorization at level 1.
	a Level 1 Superior drops down to a level 3 and authorizes a request, thus skipping level 3 and level 2, resulting in the request being fully authorized immediately.
To change your hierarchy level while viewing authorizations, perform a basic search selecting a lower hierarchy level (higher number).
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Level	The level the specified Superior is assigned to.
Superiors	The names of the Superior(s) assigned to the Hierarchy. As needed, add or remove Superiors by clicking the plus   and minus   buttons on the far right.



NOTE:  Superiors at lower levels are not considered subordinates to superiors at higher levels in the same hierarchy. You must assign employees to the subordinate list to be considered a subordinate.
However, you can create additional hierarchies to define the superior/subordinate relationship between supervisors or managers. While superiors can be assigned to multiple hierarchies, the subordinates are only assigned to a single hierarchy for one object.
For example, you setup hierarchies in the following manner:
Hierarchy Name: Sales Department
Level = 1: Sales Manager
Level = 2: Sales Assistant Manager
(Subordinates: All sales employees)
 
Hierarchy Name: Support Department
Level = 1: Support Manager
Level = 2: Support Assistant Manager
(Subordinates: All support employees)
 
Hierarchy Name: Upper Management
Level = 1: CEO
(Subordinates: Sales Manager, Sales Assistant Manager, Support Manager, Support Assistant Manage)
 
Hierarchies work with Permission Groups to determine the overall level of functionality that the employee has within TimeTrex. So even though an employee is assigned to a hierarchy as a level 1 superior, if they are assigned to the Regular Employee permission group, they will not be able to authorize requests or even see any other employees. Essentially, the hierarchy will be ignored. If you wish to restrict the employees a superior can see, you must assign them to the Supervisor (Subordinates Only) permission group. If they are assigned to any permission group at a higher level, they will see all employees regardless of how the hierarchies are defined.
 


