Policies
TimeTrex is a policy or rule-based system. Therefore, there are many different policies that you can configure and assign to one or more employees with Policy Groups. If a specific policy does not apply to your organization, then you do not need to create it. TimeTrex can operate without any policies, or with several hundred policies assigned to different employees. Each type of policy will be explained under the specific policy topic.
 
Setting up policies in TimeTrex involves a multi-step process:
	Create essential fundamental Policy "Building Blocks" such as Pay Formulas, Pay Codes, Contributing Pay Codes and Contributing Shifts that policies may be dependent upon. You may not know which specific building blocks you need until you start defining some of the policies, therefore it may be necessary to return to and adjust these as needed.  The following is an example of a policy dependent on specific building blocks:
	Overtime Policies are dependent on Contributing Shifts, Pay Codes and Pay Formulas.
	Define applicable policies such as Regular Time, Overtime, Meal, Break, Premium, Recurring Holidays, Holiday, Accrual, Absence, Schedule, Exception and Rounding Policies.
	Assign the defined policies to a Policy Group in conjunction with the employees that they will be applied to.
Pay Codes
Pay Codes are used to record and categorize time, therefore when other policies such as Regular, Overtime, Premium and Absence Policies are calculated, the resulting time is recorded as a Pay Code. Multiple policies can record time as the same or different Pay Codes as necessary.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Pay Code Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Type	Specify if the time is considered Paid or Unpaid. In the case of salaried employees, it can be Docked from their salary or Paid in addition to their salary.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Paid	Considered paid time for hourly employees; does not affect salaried employees.
Paid (Above Salary)	Increases salaried employees wage; does not affect hourly employees.
UnPaid	Considered unpaid time for hourly employees; does not affect salaried employees.
Dock	Reduces salaried employees wage; does not affect hourly employees.


Pay Formula Policy	Pay Formula Policy used to convert time to dollars.
Pay Stub Account	This field defines the Pay Stub Account that is used when processing payroll to display any hours/dollars associated with this pay code.

Contributing Pay Code Policies

Contributing Pay Code Policies simply group one or more Pay Codes so they can be more easily referenced in other policies such as Contributing Shifts Policies.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
Contributing Shifts Policies
Contributing Shift policies can be used to filter specific shifts or input time that is used for other policies, such as Regular, Overtime, Premium and Absence Policies to base their calculations on.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Contributing Shift Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Contributing Pay Code Policy	Defines the Contributing Pay Code Policy.

Date/Time Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Start Date	The date on which this policy becomes active. If you don’t specify a date, then the policy is always active.
End Date	The date on which this policy becomes inactive. If you don’t specify a date, then the policy is always active.
Start Time	The time at which this policy becomes active. This is used for defining things like evening shifts.
End Time	The time when this policy becomes inactive.
Effective Days	In this field you check off the days of the week that this policy is to be active. This is useful for weekend shifts.
Holidays	Specifies how to handle shifts that may fall on a holiday.
Type	DESCRIPTION
Have no effect	Holidays have no effect on this policy.
Always on Holidays	Shifts that fall on a holiday, even if the employee is not eligible for that holiday, will be included.
Always on Eligible Holidays	Shifts that fall on a holiday that the employee is eligible for.
Never on Holidays	Ignore shifts that fall on a holiday.


Holiday Policies	Defines the holiday policies that are affected by the above selection. This field is not available if you previously selected holidays 'Have no effect'.
Shift Criteria	Specifies the criteria for handling shifts depending on the above defined start time and end time fields.
Type	DESCRIPTION
Split Shift (Partial)	Allows only the portion of the shift worked within the Start Time and End Time to match this policy criteria.
Example Scenario: You pay a $0.50/hr differential for a shift with a defined Start Time of 3 PM and the End Time of 11 PM.
Example: If an employee worked from 2:30 PM - 10:30 PM = 8 hours, the differential would only apply to that portion of the shift between 3 PM - 10:30 PM or 7.5 hours.
Split Shift (Partial w/Limits)	Allows portions of the shift worked within the defined Start Time/ End Time and limits to match this policy criteria. Typically used for handling shift premiums in 24/7 operations where there may be 3 shifts in a day.
Field	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Time In This Shift	The minimum time the employee must work within the start time and end times specified, before their work time will be assigned to this shift.
Minimum Time Into This Shift	The minimum time the employee must work into this shift when the employee starts working within the previous shift.
Maximum Time Into Next Shift	The maximum time the employee can work into the next shift and still have it assigned to this shift. Typically this would match the "Minimum Time Into This Shift" setting as the shift that occurs next.
Example Scenario: A day, evening and night shift have been created. You pay a $0.50/hr differential for an evening shift and a $1.00/hr differential for a night shift. The Split Shift (Partial w/Limits) fields for each shift are set to the values shown in the table below:
Field	Day
7:00 AM - 3:00 PM	Evening
3:00 PM - 11:00 PM	Night
11:00 PM - 7:00 AM
Minimum Time In This Shift	0	1:00	1:00
Minimum Time Into This Shift	0	4:00	4:00
Maximum Time Into Next Shift	4:00	4:00	0
Examples:
An employee works the day shift from 7:00 AM to 3:00 PM and is asked to continuing working until 6:00 PM (8 hours day shift and 3 hours evening shift). Although the Evening "Minimum Time In This Shift" criteria of 1:00 hour has been met, the time worked into the evening shift was only 3 hours and did not meet the 4:00 hour criteria of the Evening "Minimum Time Into This Shift", therefore the evening shift differential would not apply.
An employee works 2:30 PM to 8:00 PM (0.5 hours day shift and 5 hours evening shift). The evening shift differential would apply for the 5 hours since the Evening "Minimum Time Into This Shift" exceeded the 4:00 hour criteria.
An employee works 5:00 PM to 2:00 AM (6 hours evening shift and 3 hours night shift). Since only 3 hours were worked into the night shift, the Night "Minimum Time Into This Shift" criteria of 4:00 hours has not been met, therefore the night shift differential will not apply. The evening shift differential will apply for the full 9 hours worked.
An employee works 10:30 PM to 6:30 AM ( 0.5 hours evening shift and 7.5 hours night shift). The Evening "Minimum Time In This Shift" of 1:00 hour criteria has not been met, but the Night "Minimum Time Into This Shift" has met the criteria of 4:00 hours, therefore 7.5 hours of night differential will apply.
An employee works a 12 hour shift from 2:30 PM to 2:30 AM, (0.5 hours day shift, 8 hours evening shift and 3.5 hours night shift). The first 0.5 hours worked has no differential. The Evening "Minimum Time Into This Shift" is greater than 4:00 hours and the "Maximum Time Into Next Shift" and the Night "Minimum Time Into This Shift" is less than 4:00 hours, therefore the evening shift differential would apply for 11.5 hours.
An employee starts work at 6:30 AM and ends work at 2:30 PM (0.50 hours night shift and 7.5 hours day shift). The night shift differential would not apply as it does not meet the Night "Minimum In This Shift" of 1:00 hour.
An employee works 11:00 PM to 7:30 AM (8 hours night shift and 0.5 hour day shift). The Night "Minimum Time In This Shift" criteria of 1:00 hour is met, therefore the night shift differential will apply for 8 hours. Since the Day "Minimum Time Into This Shift" criteria of 0 has been met, the 0.5 hours is assigned to the day shift with no differential.

Full Shift (Must Start & End)	Allows the full shift to match this policy criteria if the shift both starts and ends within the Start Time and the End Time window.
Example Scenario: You pay a $0.50/hr differential for a shift with a defined Start Time of 3 PM and the End Time of 11 PM.
Example: If the employee worked from 2:30 PM - 10:30 PM, none of the 8 hours worked will apply since the shift worked was not within both the defined Start Time of 3 PM and End Time of 11 PM. However, if the employee worked 3 PM - 10:30 PM the full shift of 7.5 hours would apply for the differential since the full shift falls between the defined Start Time and End Time.
Full Shift (Must Start)	Allows the full shift to match this policy criteria if the shift starts anytime within the Start Time and the End Time.
Example Scenario: You pay a $0.50/hr differential for a shift with a defined Start Time of 3 PM and the End Time of 11 PM.
Example: If the employee worked from 10 PM - 6 AM, the full 8 hours will apply for the differential because the shift started within the defined Start Time and End Time. However, if the employee worked 2:30 PM - 11:30 PM no differential will be applied.
Full Shift (Must End)	Allows the full shift to match this policy criteria if the shift ends anytime within the Start Time and the End Time.
Example Scenario: You pay a $0.50/hr differential for a shift with a defined Start Time of 3 PM and the End Time of 11 PM.
Example: If the employee works from 8 AM - 4 PM, the full 8 hours still applies for the differential because the shift worked ended within the Start Time and End Time. However, if the employee works from 4 PM to 12 AM, none of the shift worked applies.
Full Shift (Majority of Shift Worked)	Allows the full shift to match this policy criteria if the majority of the shift the employee works falls between the Start Time and the End Time.
Example Scenario: You pay a $0.50/hr differential for a shift with a defined Start Time of 3 PM and the End Time of 11 PM.
Example: If an employee worked 2:30 PM - 11:30 PM = 9 hours, the differential would be applied for the entire 9 hour shift worked. However, if the employee worked 8 AM - 4 PM, no shift differential would be applied, since the majority of the shift was outside the defined Start Time and End Time. TimeTrex calculates a majority as greater than or equal to 50.01%. In the case where exactly 50% of the shift is worked the differential only applies if the employee punches in within the Start Time and End Time.
For example, if the employee worked 11:00 AM - 7:00 PM ( exactly 50% of the shift), the differential would not apply because the employee punched in before the Start Time. However, the differential would apply for the full shift if the employee worked 7:00 PM - 3:00 AM.
Full Shift (Majority of Shift Observed)	Allows the full shift to match this policy criteria if the majority of the shift observed by the employee falls between the Start Time and the End Time. This option considers lunches, breaks and gaps between split shifts as time worked when determining if the shift meets the criteria, but does not affect the resulting time worked on the timesheet.
Example Scenario: You pay a $0.50/hr differential for a shift with a defined Start Time of 3 PM and the End Time of 11 PM.
Example: If an employee worked a split shift 10:00 AM - 2:00 PM, then 5:00 PM - 9:00 PM, the differential would apply for the 8 hour shift worked since the majority of the shift observed or 10:00 AM - 9:00 PM falls between the Start and End Time. The 3 hour gap between shifts is only taken into consideration when determining if the shift meets the criteria but does not affect the results on the timesheet.



Differential Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Defines the selection criteria for each field, either "All," "Only Selected," or "All Except Selected." If you choose "Only Selected" or "All Except Selected" you should select one or more items in the boxes below.
Exclude Default	Check the box to enable this option, which sets TimeTrex to ignore the Default Branch (as defined in each employee's record).
For example, if you want all employees who work outside their default branch to match this criteria, you can enable this option and set the selection type to All Branches.

 

Pay Formula Policies
Pay Formula Policies define a specific formula that can be used to convert time into dollars for reporting and payroll purposes. These are then assigned to Pay Codes or other policies to define the amount of pay employees receive for the associated time.
See the Pay Codes section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting Pay Formula Policies.
 
Pay Formula Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Pay Type	In this field you can choose the formula to use when converting employees time to dollars.
PAY TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Pay Multiplied By Factor	If you choose Pay Multiplied By Factor, you enter a Rate that is the multiplier for the hourly rate of the employee.
Flat Hourly Rate (Relative to Wage)	The difference between the employees regular rate and the specified rate will be used. If you set this value to be less than the regular rate, there may be a negative line item amount on their pay stub to account for the difference. If this is set to a value higher than regular rate, the item on the employee's pay stub will show the difference between the two rates.
For example, if the employee is paid $10/hour as their regular rate and the flat hourly rate is $15/hour, TimeTrex will calculate $5/hour for all time using this policy. For the Flat Hourly Rate setting, you will need to choose a Wage Group which defines the regular rate.
Flat Hourly Rate	Similar to the above Flat Hourly Rate (Relative to Wage), however its not relative to the employees wage, so no adjustments to the specified hourly rate are made. This would also normally be used in the case of premium policies where you just want to pay the employee an additional amount per hour.
Flat Hourly Rate (w/Default)	Will use the rate specified in the pay formula policy unless there is a rate specified in the employees wage record.
Minimum Hourly Rate (Relative to Wage)	Will use the higher of the two hourly rates, either the one specified in the pay formula policy, or the one specified in the employees wage record for the specified wage group, then it will adjust relative to the employees wage so only the difference in wage is used.
Minimum Hourly Rate	Will use the higher of the two hourly rates, either the one specified in the pay formula policy, or the one specified in the employees record.
Pay + Premium	If you choose Pay + Premium, you enter a premium amount that adds to the regular hourly rate of the employee and pays them both amounts.
For example, if the regular rate is $10.00/hour and the premium is set to $0.25/hour, all time using this policy will be paid at $10.25/hour.
When setting up Premium Policies, in most cases you will likely want to use the above Flat Hourly Rate type specified at $0.25/hour instead of this one to avoid double paying the employee.
Daily Flat Rate (w/Default)	Will use a flat daily rate regardless of how many hours the employee may work or be absent in the day.
For example, if the daily rate is specified as $100 and the employee works 10 hours in the day, they will receive $10/hour.
NOTE:   If the employee has any wage set in the selected wage group, it takes precedence over the specified daily rate.
Daily Average Rate	Will use an average daily rate regardless of how many hours the employee may work or be absent in the day.
For example, if the employees average daily pay is $120 and the employee works 10 hours in the day, they will receive $12/hour.
The formula used is: [ Contributing Wages ] / [ Contributing Time ] = Average Daily Rate.
PAY TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Wage Source Contributing Shift Policy	Specifies contributing shift policies that make up the wage part of the averaging formula.
Time Source Contributing Shift Policy	Defines the contributing shift policies that make up the time part of the averaging formula.
Average Rate Over	Days to average time over.


Piece Rate (per Good Quantity)	Will use this rate multiplied by the quantity specified when the employee punches in/out.


Wage Source	When using a Pay Type that depends on a previously defined hourly rate (ie: Pay Multiplied By Factor, Pay + Premium, or either of the "Relative To Wage" types), this specifies what is used as the source/input hourly rate for which the pay formula calculation is performed on.
WAGE SOURCE	DESCRIPTION
Wage Group	The hourly rate defined from the selected Secondary Wage Group.
Contributing Pay Code	Uses the hourly rate from the contributing pay codes included when calculating a policy.
This would normally be used to help calculate the proper overtime rate when the employee may be paid multiple different rates for performing different jobs or tasks, allowing the final overtime amount to fluctuate with each different regular rates rather than using a static overtime rate which using the above Wage Group would result in.
Average of Contributing Pay Codes	An hourly rate calculated from an average using the below Contributing Shift Policies.
The formula used is: [ Contributing Wages ] / [ Contributing Time ] = Average Hourly Rate.
PAY TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Wage Source Contributing Shift Policy	Specifies contributing shift policies that make up the wage part of the averaging formula.
Time Source Contributing Shift Policy	Defines the contributing shift policies that make up the time part of the averaging formula.




Rate	The rate in which hours are deposited or withdrawn from the accrual account. To bank time at double time (instead of paying it out), you would set Accrual Rate to 2.00 and set Rate to 0.00
Accrual Account	Defines the Accrual Account by which hours will deposit or withdraw from. It is especially important where time banks or compensatory (comp) time are used. Time can be simultaneously paid out and deposited/withdrawn from an accrual account. If you only want to deposit hours to an accrual policy, set the Rate to 0.00, then TimeTrex will not pay out any time.
Accrual Balance Threshold	Specifies a minimum or maximum accrual balance limit. If the accrual rate is positive, the threshold is a maximum, if negative the threshold is a minimum.
Accrual Balance Threshold Fallback	When the accrual balance threshold limit is exceeded, the excess will go to the selected account or you can Discard the excess entirely. This can be used in conjunction with the Accrual Policy, "Move Excess Rollover To" field.

Exception Policies
You may configure exception policies to alert an employee and/or supervisor to specific events such as missing punches, early or late punches, or unscheduled absences.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Exception Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Active	This flag activates or deactivates the exception.
Code	The code for the exception that is displayed on employee's timesheet.
Name	The name of the exception.
Severity	You can define a severity level for each exception. There are four severity levels: Low, Medium, High, and Critical. You should only use the Critical severity level for exceptions that must be corrected before processing payroll. An example would be missing in or out punches, or missing lunch punches. If you do apply the Critical setting to some key exceptions, it can be easier for payroll administrators to have confidence in knowing when payroll is fully ready for processing.
Grace	Grace periods on things like In Late, and Out Early.
For example, if an employee is 1 minute late, it won’t trigger an exception if the Grace period is set to 10 minutes.
Watch Window	This is the amount of time that TimeTrex monitors this exception.
For example, if this setting for In Late is set to 1 hour and the employee is 1.5 hours late, an exception will not trigger; but if they are only 30 minutes late, then the exception will trigger.
Demerit Points	The number of demerit points assigned to each exception.
Punch Notice	Either Lock-Out (reject the punch) or display a warning notice with the option to Continue or Cancel the punch, if the system detects the punch would trigger this exception. Each Mobile App station must have the "Enable: Exception Notice" enabled for this to be activated.
Notify	You can choose who will receive an alert when each exception is triggered. To receive these notifications, employees must enable Notifications in their Preferences. To notify a supervisor of an exception for one of their subordinates, both the employee and supervisor must belong to a Hierarchy, and the Exception object type must also be assigned to it.

Exceptions
 EXCEPTION NAME	 CODE	 DESCRIPTION
Long Break	B1	The Employee's punch-in exceeded the break length defined in the Break Policy.
Short Break	B2	The employee punched below the break length defined in the Break Policy.
Too Many Breaks	B3	The employee punched In/Out for more breaks than were scheduled.
Too Few Breaks	B4	The employee punched In/Out for fewer breaks than were scheduled.
No Break	B5	The employee did not punch In/Out for any scheduled break(s) during their shift.
Late Break	B6	The employee did not punch out for break by the Break Policy Active After time plus the Grace period for this specific event.
Missed Check-In	C1	Mostly used to indicate if security guards failed to check-in on their timesheet at regular intervals.
No Branch or Department	D1	The employee did not punch into a branch or department.
Not Allowed on Branch	D2	The branch the employee punched into is not assigned to them.
Not Allowed on Department	D3	The department the employee punched into is not assigned to them.
GEO Fence Violation	G1	The employee did not punch In/Out within an allowed GEO fence.
Not Allowed On Job	J1	The job the employee punched into is not assigned to them.
Not Allowed On Task	J2	The task the employee punched into is not assigned to them.
Job Completed	J3	The employee punched into a job that is already completed. To trigger this exception, an End Date must be specified for the job and the status must be set to Completed.
No Job or Task	J4	The employee did not punch into a job or task.
Long Lunch	L1	The employee's lunch break exceeded the scheduled lunch break.
Short Lunch	L2	The employee's lunch break was below the lunch break time scheduled.
No Lunch	L3	The employee did not take a lunch break. There was both no In or Out punch made designated for lunch breaks.
Late Lunch	L4	The employee did not punch out for lunch break by the Meal Policy Active After time plus the Grace period for this specific event.
Missing In Punch	M1	The employee punched Out without punching In first. See Punching In/Out.
Missing Out Punch	M2	The employee punched In without punching Out. This exception will not be triggered until the maximum shift time, set in the pay period schedule, from the first punch In has been exceeded. The Missing Out Punch exception can be delayed or not allowed to be triggered for some time. For more timely exceptions, consider using the scheduled Out Late exception instead.
Missing Lunch In/Out Punch	M3	Lunch is missing one of the paired punches (In or Out).
Missing Break In/Out Punch	M4	Break is missing one of the paired punches (In or Out).
Over Daily Time	O1	The employee is over their daily scheduled time. This is used to notify that an employee has exceeded regular time and now working overtime.
Over Weekly Time	O2	The employee is over their weekly scheduled time. This is used to notify that an employee has exceeded regular time and now working overtime.
Unscheduled Absence	S1	No punch-in for a specific employee was logged during the entire time of the scheduled shift. The absence was not approved by a supervisor.
Not Scheduled	S2	The employee was not scheduled to work, however a punch-in was logged.
In Early	S3	A punch-in was logged before a scheduled shift start and beyond the set Grace Period for this specific event.
In Late	S4	A punch-in or no punch was logged after a scheduled shift start and outside the set Grace Period for this event.
Out Early	S5	A punch-out was logged before the scheduled end of shift was reached.
Out Late	S6	A punch-out or no punch was logged after the scheduled end of shift was reached.
Over Daily Scheduled Time	S7	The employee was punched-in for a total amount of time that exceeds their scheduled daily shift plus the allotted Grace Period, if any.
Under Daily Scheduled Time	S8	The employee was punched-in for a total amount of time that is below their scheduled daily shift plus the allotted Grace Period, if any.
Over Weekly Scheduled Time	S9	The employee was punched-in for a total amount of time that is over their scheduled weekly shift plus the allotted Grace Period, if any.
Not Scheduled Branch or Department	SB	The employee punched into a branch or department that wasn't assigned to their schedule.
Not Scheduled Job or Task	SC	The employee punched into a job or task that wasn't assigned to their schedule.
Not Scheduled Tags	ST	The employee punched into a tag that wasn't assigned to their schedule.
Not Allowed on Punch Tag	T1	The punch tag the employee punched into is not assigned to them.
No Punch Tag	T2	The employee did not punch into a punch tag.
Timesheet Not Verified	V1	If Timesheet Verification is enabled, this is triggered when an employees timesheet has not been verified after the verification window opens and the Grace Period has been exceeded.
NOTE:  If Timesheet Verification is enabled, any exceptions set as critical severity must be corrected before the timesheet can be verified.

Regular Time Policies
Regular Time Policies primarily take worked time and assign it with a specific Pay Code, which can then be included in other policies such as Overtime and Premium policies. Regular time is exclusive to itself, therefore if you have multiple regular time policies, time assigned to one regular time policy cannot also be assigned to another.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Regular Time Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Contributing Shift Policy	Defines the shifts that are included in this policy calculation.
Pay Code	Specifies the Pay Code that resulting time is recorded as.
Pay Formula Policy	Determines how resulting time is converted to dollars. If a Pay Formula Policy is not explicitly defined then the Pay Formula Policy assigned to the above selected Pay Code is used instead.
Calculation Order	The order in which Regular Time Policies are calculated, where 1 is the first and 9999 is the last.
Since a block of time is only associated with the first Regular Time policy that includes it, the order in which they are calculated is very important, especially if the same Contributing Shift Policy is used by multiple Regular Time policies. The last Regular Time policy will automatically be assigned all remaining worked time that is not already accounted for.

Differential Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Defines the selection criteria for each field, either "All," "Only Selected," or "All Except Selected." If you choose "Only Selected" or "All Except Selected" you should select one or more items in the boxes below.
Exclude Default	Check the box to enable this option, which sets TimeTrex to ignore the Default Branch (as defined in each employee's record).
For example, if you want all employees who work outside their default branch to match this criteria, you can enable this option and set the selection type to All Branches.
Pay Code Policy	Defines which contributing pay code policy this applies to.

 
Overtime Policies
Overtime policies define the number of hours or consecutive days that an employee can work before they are paid at a different rate.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Contributing Shift Policy	Defines the shifts that are included in this policy calculation.
Type	Specifies the interval in which the overtime calculations are done.
For example, if you set a Daily overtime policy, TimeTrex only looks at the work time in a single 24-hour day. If it is set as a Weekly policy, TimeTrex will calculate against a 7-day week.
NOTE:  If you set Type to Weekly overtime policy, the overtime week (such as Sun-Sat, or Mon-Sun) is defined in the Pay Period Schedules as Overtime Week.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Daily	Calculates the number of hours in the day.
Weekly	Calculates the number of hours in the week as defined by the Pay Period Schedule.
Bi-Weekly	Calculates the number of hours in a two-week period as defined by the Pay Period Schedule.
Specific Day Of Week	Calculates the number of hours on the specific day of week that is chosen.
2 - 7 Or More Consecutive Days/Week	Overtime is calculated on 2 to 7 or more consecutive days per week.
Holiday	Calculates the hours only on holidays specified by the Holiday Policy.
Over Schedule (Daily) / No Schedule	Calculates the hours over the employees scheduled number of hours in the day, or if they are not scheduled at all.
Over Schedule (Weekly) / No Schedule	Calculates the hours over the employees scheduled number of hours in the week, or if they are not scheduled at all.
2 - 7 Or More Days Consecutively Worked	Overtime is calculated on 2 to 7 or more consecutive days worked.
2nd - 7th Consecutive Day Worked	Overtime is calculated on the 2nd to 7th consecutive day worked.
2 - 7 Or More Days/Week Worked	Overtime is calculated on 2 to 7 or more days per week worked.
Every 3 - 12 Weeks	Calculates overtime on every 3 to 12 week periods.


Active After	The amount of time an employee must work within the interval set in Type before this overtime policy triggers. For a Daily Type, if you want any work time that exceeds 8 hours to count as overtime, you would set this value of Active After to 8 hours. For Weekly, you might set this value to 40 hours.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Adjusted By	This dynamically reduces the Active After time by the number of hours returned by the contributing shift policy that is selected.
Scenario: A salaried employee normally works 40 hours/week and receives overtime for any hours worked over 40 hours/week, including any absent time on holidays,
Example: Applying the scenario above, this employee worked Mon to Wed = 8 hours each day, Thurs = 10 hours & Friday = 8 hours paid holiday. By selecting the Adjusted By contributing shift policy to Paid Absences, and the Active After as 40 hours, results in the 40 hours being reduced to 32 hours due to the 8 hours of paid holiday time. Prior to Friday the employee worked 34 hours, therefore there will be 2 hours overtime this week. Alternatively, if the Adjusted By is 'None' or no contributing shift policy is selected, there would be no overtime this week.

Pay Code	Specifies the Pay Code that resulting time is recorded as.
Pay Formula Policy	Determines how resulting time is converted to dollars. If a Pay Formula Policy is not explicitly defined then the Pay Formula Policy assigned to the above selected Pay Code is used instead.

Differential Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Defines the selection criteria for each field, either "All," "Only Selected," or "All Except Selected." If you choose "Only Selected" or "All Except Selected" you should select one or more items in the boxes below.
Exclude Default	Check the box to enable this option, which sets TimeTrex to ignore the Default Branch (as defined in each employee's record).
For example, if you want all employees who work outside their default branch to match this criteria, you can enable this option and set the selection type to All Branches.
Pay Code Policy	Defines which contributing pay code policy this applies to, after all other criteria has been applied.
For example, if you split out Shift 1 and Shift 2 time into separate Regular Time policies, and want to have Weekly >40 hrs overtime split out by the same two shifts, you would create two overtime policies, one with Shift 1 Regular Time selected here, and another with Shift 2 Regular Time selected here.

Rounding Policies
Rounding policies define the interval and direction that employee punches are rounded to. Rounding policies can greatly affect payroll expenses by determining how much time employees are paid, or docked, for coming in late, or leaving early.
 
Rounding Policy Theory
 
The theory behind rounding is to offer employers a method where employees are only paid for the time the employees are at work or ready to work.
For example, if an employee is scheduled to start work at 8:00 AM, walking through the front door at 7:59 AM might not be acceptable. The employee might have to turn on the lights, remove their jacket, start the computers or machinery, and grab coffee before beginning real work. If employers do not want to pay them for this non-productive time, a rounding policy can be put into effect.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Rounding Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Punch Type	Specifies which types of punches that will round in this policy. It’s important to understand the significance of setting a Punch Type to Lunch Total, Break Total, or Day Total. Each type will initiate a total rounding that applies to the total lunch, break or day time and rounds it to the specified interval. This is useful if it does not matter to the employer when employees punch In/Out as long as the total punch time is rounded to the specified interval.
In TimeTrex, every punch must be paired with another punch. (See Punching In/Out for more information.) For every IN punch, there must be a corresponding OUT punch in order to calculate the total amount of worked time. Consequently, Lunch/Break/Day total rounding simply rounds the last punch in the pair so that the overall total time of the pair will round to the interval that you specify.
For example, take the following punches with no rounding:
In: 8:03 AM Out: 5:05 PM Total Time: 9:02 (9 hours and 2 minutes)
If you were to apply Day Total and Average rounding with a 15-minute interval, the same punches would look like this:
In: 8:03 AM Out: 5:03 PM <-- changed from 5:05 PM to 5:03 PM Total Time: 9:00 (9 hours exactly)
As you can see, only the OUT punch is modified to a value that would result in the total time rounding to the nearest (average) 15 minutes—in this case, 9 hours exactly. However, each individual punch can be a value that itself is not rounded (5:03 PM is obviously not rounded to the nearest 15 minutes).
NOTE:  Transfer punches are only rounded when the Punch Type is set to Transfer. They are not rounded as part of All Punches, All In or All Out punches.
Round Type	Sets the direction which punches will round toward.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Down	Punches are always rounded down.
Average	Average will split the interval in half and round values in the lower half down and the values in the upper half up by the specified interval.
Average (Partial Min. Down)	For intervals not evenly divided in half to the minute, the partial minute rounds down.
Example: If the interval is set to 15 minutes, which is an uneven split when divided in half (7.5) then this rounding type rounds the .5 or partial minute down to 7 minutes and the balance of 8 minutes making a 7/8 minute split. So a punch in at 7:52 AM will be rounded down to 7:45 AM, and a punch at 7:53 AM will be rounded up to 8:00 AM.
Average (Partial Min. Up)	For intervals not evenly divided in half to the minute, the partial minute rounds up.
Example: If the interval is set to 15 minutes, which is an uneven split when divided in half (7.5) then this rounding type rounds the .5 or partial minute up to 8 minutes and the balance of 7 minutes making an 8/7 minute split. So a punch in at 7:52 AM will be rounded up to 8:00 AM, and a punch in at 7:51 AM will be rounded down to 7:45 AM.
Up	Punches are always rounded up.

Interval	Defines the amount of time that punches will round.
For example, if this value is set to 1 minute, all times will round to the closest minute. If this value is set to 15 minutes, times will round to the closest quarter hour. It’s important to understand the relation of Interval with Round Type. If the Round Type is set to Up, and Interval set to 15 minutes, all times will round up to the next 15-minute interval. (For example, 7:34 AM will round up to 7:45 AM; 7:46 AM will round to 8:00 AM). Another example: If you set Round Type to Average, all times will round to the nearest interval. (7:34 AM will round down to 7:30 AM; 7:41 AM will round up to 7:45 AM).
Grace Period	This is the amount of time given to the employee before rounding takes place.
For example, if Round Type is set to Up and Interval is set to 15 minutes with a Grace Period of 3 minutes, and the employee punches IN at 8:02 AM, the punch will round down to 8:00 AM since the punch is within the Grace Period window. You should set this to 0 when using the Average rounding type.
Strict Schedule
 	By checking this box, punch times will round to the scheduled time of each employee. When you specify this option, TimeTrex will never record time that exceeds the schedule for any employee. This is known as pre-authorized overtime. However, if the employee punches in late, or punches out early, those punches will round according to this policy. For strict rounding to work, the employee must be scheduled on that day and punch within the defined Start/Stop Window.
For example: If an employee is scheduled to start their shift at 8:00 AM, and they punch in at 7:48 AM, but Strict Schedule is enabled, TimeTrex will record the punch time as their schedule time of 8:00 AM. If they punch in after their schedule time, then the time will round normally. The opposite is true for setting Strict Schedule at the end of a shift. If an employee punches out after their schedule end time of 5:00 PM, TimeTrex records it as their scheduled time of 5:00 PM. If they punch out before their schedule end time, 4:50 PM, TimeTrex will round the time accordingly. When using Lunch, Break, or Day Total rounding with Strict Rounding, the total time cannot exceed the scheduled total time.
TIP:  With each punch, TimeTrex records the actual punch time (before rounding), which supervisors can see when necessary. This allows supervisors to make manual adjustments at a later time if the employee actually did work overtime.
Window Based On	Enables conditional rounding by defining what the below Start/Stop settings are based on.
WINDOW BASED ON	DESCRIPTION
Scheduled Time	Employees scheduled time, either Start or End time.
Scheduled Time or Not Scheduled	Employees scheduled time, either Start or End time or apply even if the employee isn't scheduled at all.
Static Time	Specific static time, such as 9:00AM, defined in the Static Time field that appears below.
Static Total Time	Specific total shift time, such as 8 hours, defined in the Static Total Time field that appears below.


Start Window	Amount of time before the above selection when the window starts.
For example if the above selection is Static Time set to 9:00 AM, and the Start Window is set to 00:15 then the window will start at 8:45 AM.
Stop Window	Amount of time after the above selection when the window ends.
For example if the above selection is Static Time set to 9:00 AM, and the Stop Window is set to 00:10 then the window will stop at 9:10 AM. Only punches that fall within the Start/Stop Window meet the condition and will be rounded.

NOTE:  Recalculating timesheets does not re-apply rounding policies. For more information, see Recalculating Timesheets.
WARNING:  You should check your federal, state/provincial and local labor laws to determine if rounding policies are legally applicable.
US Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, Hours Worked - Use of Time Clocks and Rounding 785.48
Accrual Accounts
Accrual Accounts are referenced by Accrual Policies (as accounts that accrued time is deposited into) and Pay Formula Policies (as accounts that accrued time is deposited or withdrawn from). You can think of Accrual Accounts similar to a bank account, however instead of money being deposited or withdrawn it is time.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Accrual Account Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Display Balance on Pay Stub	Check this box to print the current accrual balance on the employees pay stub.

Accrual Policies
Accrual policies provide a mechanism for time to accrue or deposit into a time bank so employees can take time off at a later date. Commonly accrual policies are for banking time, keeping track of sick time, or vacation time. Overtime Policies and Absence Policies can also be setup to automatically deposit or withdraw time from accrual policies.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
Accrual Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Type	Select an accrual policy type from the drop-down box.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Calendar Based	This type is similar to the standard accrual policy, except that time deposits into the bank on a regular interval (weekly, monthly, and so on) to correspond with the length of service milestones.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Frequency	Your choice defines how often time is deposited into each employees accrual account. If each Pay Period is chosen, time will be accrued on the end date of each pay period. If you choose Annually, Quarterly, Monthly, or Weekly, a specific date must also be set.
NOTE:   Consider the common case where you choose Annual frequency and specify a date of January 1 and an employee is hired on January 2nd. In such a case, the employee will require nearly 2 years full employment to receive the accrual rate for a 1-year service milestone because they will always be one day short of a full year on the date when time deposits into their accruals. If you use the annual frequency, you should consider basing it on the Employee's Hire Date, so that the time deposits on the anniversary date of each employee. Alternatively you could consider using a Milestone Rollover Based On date that matches this frequency date.
Enable Opening Balance	Applies the first accrual amount on the employees hire date as an opening balance. However, if After Minimum Employed Days (i.e. probation period) is greater than zero then, once that number of days has elapsed, TimeTrex will deposit all time that would otherwise be accrued, starting from the employees hire date.
Prorate Initial Accrual Amount	Prorates the first accrual amount based on the employees hire date.
For example if the accrual frequency applies on the 1st of each month, if the employee was hired on June 15th, their first accrual amount would occur on July 1st for the 15 of the 30 remaining days in June, or one half of the normal accrual amount. If Enable Opening Balance is enabled above then the opening balance amount would be considered the Initial Accrual Amount and therefore prorated.


Hour Based	Choosing this type is similar to the standard accrual policy, except that time deposits into the bank each day that an employee works to correspond with the length of service milestones.


Accrual Account	The Accrual Account that accrued time is deposited into.
Milestone Rollover Based On	This is the date from which the length of service defined for each milestone is calculated from.
This can be either the Employee’s Hire Date, or specific day of a particular month. If it is defined as a specific day then the length of service will be calculated as if employees were hired on that date in the year they were hired.
For example if the date specified is January 1st, then an employee hired on March 20th 2005 would have their length of service calculated from January 1st 2005 resulting in them receiving a greater length of service than they actually have. Conversely if the date specified is June 1st, then an employee hired on March 20th 2005 would have their length of service calculated from June 1st 2005, resulting in lower length of service than they actually have.
Move Excess Rollover Time To	Automatically moves any excess rollover time to another accrual account. Ideal for automatically handling "Current Year" and "Past Year" accruals in separate buckets.

 
Eligibility Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
After Minimum Employed Days	The number of days that an employee must be employed before they become eligible to start accruing time.
Eligibility Period	Your choice defines when the employee is eligible to receive accrued time: Always Eligible, each Pay Period or Weekly.
If an Eligibility Period of each Pay Period or Weekly is selected, then the following thresholds can be set.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
After Minimum Time	An employee can accrue time once the Minimum Time threshold is met in the Eligibility Period.
For example, if the Eligibility Period is set to Weekly and the After Minimum Time is set to 40 hours, then the employee will only accrue time after 40 hours in the week.
Apply Retroactively	If checked, once the employee reaches the After Minimum Time threshold the employee accrues time for all of the Minimum Time that is specified.
For example, if the After Minimum Time is set to 40 hours and the employee works 42 hours and the Apply Retroactively is checked, the employee will accrue time on 42 hours. If the employee works 39 hours, they have not met the minimum time threshold and therefore will not accrue any time.
Before Maximum Time	The employee will no longer accrue time once this Maximum Time threshold is met. Use zero for no maximum.
Contributing Shift Policy	Defines the shifts that are included in the calculation to determine if the thresholds have been met.
WARNING:  If using Eligibility criteria with a Calendar-Based accrual type, it is recommended that you use a Frequency of either each Pay period or Weekly that matches the Eligibility Period.


 
Length Of Service Milestones Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Length of Service	The amount of time that an employee must be continuously employed (calculated from the above Milestone Rollover date), or the amount of total employee work time (total hours), after which the employee receives the accrual rate for this milestone.
Accrual Rate/Year	This field is only available for Calendar Based accrual policies and is the number of hours the employee accrues in a one year period. TimeTrex divides this total by the Frequency to calculate the number of hours that accrue per pay period, week, month, or year.
Accrual Rate/Hour	This field is only available for Hour Based accrual policies and determines the amount of time accrued for every hour the employee works.
Annual Accrual Maximum	This field is only available for Hour Based accrual policies and specifies the maximum amount of time that can be accrued per year, regardless of the Accrual Maximum Balance below. Once an employee has reached this maximum amount they will no longer accrue time until the next year, even if they happen to use time from their accrual.
Accrual Maximum Balance	This sets the upper limit for the balance that employees are allowed to have in their accrual account. After an employee reaches this limit, TimeTrex will no longer accrue time until the balance falls below this limit. This is used as a cap to keep employees from accruing too much time, and motivates them to take time off before they reach the cap. You should use a value at least equal to or greater than the Accrual Rate/Year; otherwise, the employee can never earn the full accrual rate.
Annual Maximum Rollover	The maximum amount of time that can roll over into the next year. The adjustment occurs on the date for Milestone Rollover Based On.
For example, if the Accrual Rate/Year is set to 40 hours and the Annual Maximum Rollover is set to 20 hours, an adjustment entry is automatically made to reduce their accrual to 20 hours when the employee reaches the milestone rollover date with more than 20 hours in their accrual. If you want all time that accrues to rollover into the next year, simply set this value to something greater than (or equal to) Accrual Total Maximum. A value of zero will result in no time being rolled over.

Employee Settings Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Length of Service Date	Overrides the employees Hire Date used to determine their Length of Service.
Length of Service Modifier	Multiplier of the Length of Service value for each Milestone.
Used to increase or decrease the length of service required to hit each milestone.
For example a Length of Service Modifier of 0.50 would cut each milestone length of service required to hit that milestone in half.
Accrual Rate Modifier	Multiplier of the Accrual Rate value for each Milestone.
This can be used to better handle individual accrual settings on a per employee basis, similar to a full-time equivalency rate.
For example if the milestone is designed for full-time employees and set to accrue 80 hours (2 weeks) of vacation time each year, if you have a part-time employee that normally works half what a full-time employee works and therefore only accrues 1 week per year, you would set this value to 0.50, thereby multiplying the accrual rate by half.
Accrual Total Maximum Modifier	Multiplier of the Accrual Total Maximum value for each Milestone.
Annual Maximum Rollover Modifier	Multiplier of the Annual Maximum Rollover value for each Milestone.

Absence Policies
Absence policies offer a method of tracking either paid or unpaid time when employees are absent from work. Typical absences may include personal time off (PTO), vacation, holidays, sick time, and jury duty.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies.
 
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Absence Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Pay Code	Specifies the Pay Code that resulting time is recorded as.
Pay Formula Policy	Determines how resulting time is converted to dollars, or if its linked to an accrual policy. If a Pay Formula Policy is not explicitly defined then the Pay Formula Policy assigned to the above selected Pay Code is used instead.

 
Meal Policies
Meal policies have several purposes. The primary purpose is to define when TimeTrex can expect an employee to take lunch, so it knows to set the default Punch Type to Lunch. The second purpose is to specify the duration of the meal time, or if the meal time should automatically add to or subtract from the shift time for the employees to which the meal policy applies. A Meal policy can be included in a Schedule Policy to apply for specific shifts.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies. Meal Policies can be included in a Schedule Policy to apply for specific shifts.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Meal Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Type	Specifies if this meal policy defines a window for defaulting punch types to lunch, or if it will be used to modify employees' total time for the day.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Normal	Used to determine the lunch time an employee is expected to take for scheduling purposes, or a time window when the employee is expected to punch out for lunch so TimeTrex can default the punch type for the employee.
Auto-Deduct	Will automatically deduct the meal time from employees' time once their shift exceeds the Active After interval. This is useful when employees are not paid for lunch and they won't be punching in or out for lunch.
Auto-Add	Setting Type to Auto-Add will cause an automatic addition of the Meal Time to the employees' time after their shift exceeds the Active After interval. This is useful when employees are paid for lunch, but you want to have them punch In/Out for tracking purposes. Setting Type to Normal means that meal policies are used to determine the lunchtime an employee is expected to take for scheduling purposes.


Active After	This is amount of time that a shift must exceed before this meal policy is activated.
For example, an employee might punch in for only 4 hours and then punch out to go home sick. You may not want to deduct the usual 1-hour lunch from their shift. In this case, you could set the Active After to 5 hours, so that a lunch deduction will only occur when an employee works at least 5 hours. As with Overtime Policies, you can specify multiple meal policies, each having a different Active After interval. You can configure it so employees who work 4-hour shifts will only receive a 30-minute lunch, and employees who work 6-hour shifts receive a 1-hour lunch.
Meal Time	When Type is set to Auto-Add or Auto-Deduct, this interval defines the length of time that adds or deducts from the total shift time for all employees to whom this policy applies.
Auto-Detect Meals By	Determines how TimeTrex auto-detects meals.
AUTO-DETECT MEALS BY	DESCRIPTION
Time Window	Will cause lunch punches to be detected relative to the employees' first punch of their shifts.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Start Window	Amount of time that must elapse after the employees' first punch before their next punch is defaulted to lunch.
For example if an employee punches in at 8:00 AM and usually goes for lunch between 11:00 AM and 1:00 PM, setting the start window to 3 hours would cause TimeTrex to interpret any punch that happens 3 hours after the first punch as being Lunch.
Window Length	The length of time after the Start Window that TimeTrex continues to default punches to lunch. When outside this window, punches will default to Normal.
For example, if an employee normally starts their lunch within a 2-hour window (for example, between 11:00 AM and 1:00 PM), then you would set this value to 2 hours.


Punch Time (Proactive)	Will use a minimum and maximum value to constrain the interval that an employee takes for a meal. This will proactively detect lunch punches when the employee is punching out and allow lunch punch reminders to be used. You must specify two additional values, described below.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Punch Time	The minimum amount of time that an employee can punch out for Lunch.
For example, if employees usually take a lunch that is approximately 60 minutes in length, you can set this value to 45 minutes.
Maximum Punch Time	The maximum amount of time that an employee can punch out for Lunch.
For example, if employees usually take a lunch that is approximately 60 minutes in length, you can set this value to 75 minutes.


Punch Time (Reactive)	Will use a minimum and maximum value to constrain the interval that an employee takes for a meal. This will reactively detect lunch punches when the employee is punching back in from lunch and lunch punch reminders will be disabled. You must specify two additional values, described below.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Punch Time	The minimum amount of time that an employee can punch out for Lunch.
For example, if employees usually take a lunch that is approximately 60 minutes in length, you can set this value to 45 minutes.
Maximum Punch Time	The maximum amount of time that an employee can punch out for Lunch.
For example, if employees usually take a lunch that is approximately 60 minutes in length, you can set this value to 75 minutes.




Include Any Punched Time for Meal	When Type is set to Auto-Add or Auto-Deduct, checking this box will cause TimeTrex to adjust the meal time by the difference between what an employee punches and what the meal policy defines. This is used when you pay employees for a 30-minute lunch, but still have them punch in and punch out so you can track if they take more then 30 minutes. You do not want to pay them for any time that exceeds the 30-minute interval. Consider this example: You want to pay employees for a maximum 30-minute lunch. With a 30-minute Auto-Add meal policy, when an employee punches out for a 30-minute lunch, they will not (by default) be paid for that time because they are punched out, or off the clock. However, TimeTrex will apply this meal policy and add 30 minutes to their total paid time, so they are paid for a lunch. Subsequently, if the employee punches out for a 45-minute lunch, TimeTrex will only add 30 minutes of paid time. They will not be paid for the extra 15 minutes that they took for lunch.
Allocation Type	Specifies how the meal time is allocated within the employees shift if they have worked in more than one cost center (Branch, Department, Job or Task).
ALLOCATION	DESCRIPTION
Proportional Distribution (Default)	Allocates the meal time to each Branch, Department, Job, Task proportionally.
For example, if the employee worked an 11 hour day and 1 hour was auto-deducted for lunch with 4 hours in Branch A, and 6 hours in Branch B, than 40% of the lunch time would be allocated to Branch A and 60% allocated to Branch B.
At Active After Time	Allocates the end of the meal time retroactively to the Branch, Department, Job and Task that the employee was working before the Active After Time occurred.
For example, assuming 1 hour total for lunch, if the Active After Time is set to 5 hours, and the employee worked from 8 AM to 12:30 PM (4.5. hours) in Branch A and 12:30 PM to 5:00 PM in Branch B, the meal would trigger at 1:00 PM, placing the lunch at 12:00 PM - 1:00 PM. This will allocate 0.5hours of lunch to Branch A and 0.5 hours to Branch B. In the rare event when there is no way to allocate the meal time to a specific cost center, it will fall back to using the proportional distribution method.

Pay Code	Specifies the Pay Code that resulting time is recorded as.
Pay Formula Policy	Determines how resulting time is converted to dollars. If a Pay Formula Policy is not explicitly defined then the Pay Formula Policy assigned to the above selected Pay Code is used instead.

Break Policies
Break Policies have several uses. The primary use is to indicate when the TimeTrex system should expect an employee to take one or more breaks so it automatically sets the Punch Type to Break. The second use for Break Policies is to determine how long the break time should be, or specify that the break time automatically adds (pay) or deducts (dock) from the shift time for employees to whom the policy applies.
Break Policies function almost identically to Meal Policies, except for one difference. If you specify multiple Break Policies, each one activates after the actual break time matches the Active After time. (As with multiple Meal Policies, TimeTrex only uses the one that exceeds the Active After time.) This feature gives you the flexibility of configuring multiple breaks, each having a different length of time and Active After setting.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies. Break Policies can be included in a Schedule Policy to apply for specific shifts.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Break Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Type	Specifies if this Break Policy defines a window for defaulting punch types to break, or if it will be used to modify the employees' total time for the day.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Normal	Used to determine the break time an employee is expected to take for scheduling purposes, or a time window where the employee is expected to punch out for break so TimeTrex can default the punch type for the employee.
Auto-Deduct	Automatically deducts the break time from the employees' time after their shift exceeds the Active After interval. This is useful when the employees are not paid for break, and they won't be punching in or out for break.
Auto-Add	Setting Type to Auto-Add will cause an automatic addition of the break time to the employees' time once their shift exceeds the Active After interval. This is used when employees are paid for break, but you want them to punch In/Out for tracking purposes. Setting Type to Normal means that Break Policies are used to determine the break time an employee is expected to take for scheduling purposes.


Active After	The amount of time that a shift must exceed before this break policy is activated.
For example, an employee might punch in for only 4 hours and then punch out to go home sick. You may not want to deduct the usual break from their shift. In this case, you could set the Active After to 5 hours, so that a break deduction will only occur when an employee works at least 5 hours. As with Overtime Policies, you can specify multiple break policies, each having a different Active After interval. You can configure it such that employees who work 4-hour shifts will only receive a 15-minute break, and employees who work 6-hour shifts may receive a 30-minute break.
Break Time	When Type is set to Auto-Add or Auto-Deduct, this interval defines the length of time that will be added or deducted from the total shift time for all employees to whom this policy applies.
Auto-Detect Breaks By	Determines how TimeTrex auto-detects breaks.
AUTO-DETECT BREAKS BY	DESCRIPTION
Time Window	Will cause break punches to be detected relative to the employees' first punch of their shifts.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Start Window	Amount of time that must elapse after the employee's first punch before their next punch is defaulted to break.
For example, if an employee punches in at 8:00 AM and usually goes for Break between 9:30 AM and 11:00 AM, setting the start window to 1.5 hours would cause TimeTrex to interpret any punch that happens 1.5 hours after the first punch as being Break.
Window Length	The length of time after the Start Window that TimeTrex continues to default punches to Break. Outside this window, punches will default to Normal.
For example, if an employee normally starts their Break within a 1.5-hour window (between 9:30 AM and 11:00 AM), then you would set this value to 1.5 hours.


Punch Time (Proactive)	This field uses a minimum and maximum value to constrain the interval that an employee may take for a break. This will proactively detect break punches when the employee is punching out and allow break punch reminders to be used. You must specify two additional values, which are described below.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Punch Time	The minimum amount of time that an employee can punch out for will be determined to be break.
For example, if employees usually take a break that is around 15 minutes in length, you could set this value to 10 minutes.
Maximum Punch Time	The maximum amount of time that an employee can punch out for will be determined to be break.
For example if employees usually take a break that is around 15 minutes in length, you could set this value to 20 minutes.


Punch Time (Reactive)	This field uses a minimum and maximum value to constrain the interval that an employee may take for a break. This will reactively detect break punches when the employee is punching back in from break and break punch reminders will be disabled. You must specify two additional values, which are described below.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Punch Time	The minimum amount of time that an employee can punch out for will be determined to be break.
For example, if employees usually take a break that is around 15 minutes in length, you could set this value to 10 minutes.
Maximum Punch Time	The maximum amount of time that an employee can punch out for will be determined to be break.
For example if employees usually take a break that is around 15 minutes in length, you could set this value to 20 minutes.




Include Any Punched Time for Break	When Type is set to Auto-Add or Auto-Deduct, checking this box will cause TimeTrex to adjust the break time by the difference between what an employee punches and what the break policy defines. This is used when you pay employees for a 30-minute break, but want them to punch in and punch out so you can track if they take more then 30 minutes. You do not want to pay them for any time that exceeds the 30-minute interval.
For example, you want to pay employees for a maximum 30-minute break. With a 30-minute Auto-Add break policy, when an employee punches out for a 30-minute break, they will not (by default) be paid for that time because they are punched out, or off the clock. However, TimeTrex applies this break policy and adds 30 minutes to their total paid time so they are paid for a break. If the employee punches out for a 45-minute break, TimeTrex will only add 30 minutes of paid time. They will not be paid for the extra 15 minutes that they took for break.
Include Multiple Breaks	When Type is set to Auto-Add or Auto-Deduct, checking this box will allow TimeTrex to include multiple break punches when calculating the total break time.
For example, if you allow employees to take 30 minutes of break time at any point throughout the day, split into intervals (ie. three breaks in total, the first being 10 minutes, the second being 5 minutes, and the third being 15 minutes), this option will allow the employees' flexibility over when, how long, and how many breaks they can take.
Allocation Type	Specifies how the break time is allocated within the employees shift if they have worked in more than one cost center (Branch, Department, Job or Task).
ALLOCATION	DESCRIPTION
Proportional Distribution (Default)	Allocates the break time to each Branch, Department, Job, Task proportionally.
For example, if the employee worked a 10.25 hour day and .25 hour was auto-deducted for a break with 4.0 hours in Branch A, and 6.0 hours in Branch B, than 40% of the break time would be allocated to Branch A and 60% allocated to Branch B.
At Active After Time	Allocates the break time to the Branch, Department, Job, Task that the employee was working at when the Active After time occurred.
For example, if the Active After time was 2 hours, and the employee worked from 8AM to 10:15AM (2.25 hours) in Branch A and 10:15AM to 5:00PM in Branch B and the break was .50 hours, then 0.25 hours of the break would be allocated to Branch A and 0.25 to Branch B. In the rare event when there is no way to allocate the break time to a specific cost center, it will fall back to using the proportional distribution method.

Pay Code	Specifies the Pay Code that resulting time is recorded as.
Pay Formula Policy	Determines how resulting time is converted to dollars. If a Pay Formula Policy is not explicitly defined then the Pay Formula Policy assigned to the above selected Pay Code is used instead.

 
 

Break Policies have several uses. The primary use is to indicate when the TimeTrex system should expect an employee to take one or more breaks so it automatically sets the Punch Type to Break. The second use for Break Policies is to determine how long the break time should be, or specify that the break time automatically adds (pay) or deducts (dock) from the shift time for employees to whom the policy applies.
Break Policies function almost identically to Meal Policies, except for one difference. If you specify multiple Break Policies, each one activates after the actual break time matches the Active After time. (As with multiple Meal Policies, TimeTrex only uses the one that exceeds the Active After time.) This feature gives you the flexibility of configuring multiple breaks, each having a different length of time and Active After setting.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies. Break Policies can be included in a Schedule Policy to apply for specific shifts.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Break Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Type	Specifies if this Break Policy defines a window for defaulting punch types to break, or if it will be used to modify the employees' total time for the day.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Normal	Used to determine the break time an employee is expected to take for scheduling purposes, or a time window where the employee is expected to punch out for break so TimeTrex can default the punch type for the employee.
Auto-Deduct	Automatically deducts the break time from the employees' time after their shift exceeds the Active After interval. This is useful when the employees are not paid for break, and they won't be punching in or out for break.
Auto-Add	Setting Type to Auto-Add will cause an automatic addition of the break time to the employees' time once their shift exceeds the Active After interval. This is used when employees are paid for break, but you want them to punch In/Out for tracking purposes. Setting Type to Normal means that Break Policies are used to determine the break time an employee is expected to take for scheduling purposes.


Active After	The amount of time that a shift must exceed before this break policy is activated.
For example, an employee might punch in for only 4 hours and then punch out to go home sick. You may not want to deduct the usual break from their shift. In this case, you could set the Active After to 5 hours, so that a break deduction will only occur when an employee works at least 5 hours. As with Overtime Policies, you can specify multiple break policies, each having a different Active After interval. You can configure it such that employees who work 4-hour shifts will only receive a 15-minute break, and employees who work 6-hour shifts may receive a 30-minute break.
Break Time	When Type is set to Auto-Add or Auto-Deduct, this interval defines the length of time that will be added or deducted from the total shift time for all employees to whom this policy applies.
Auto-Detect Breaks By	Determines how TimeTrex auto-detects breaks.
AUTO-DETECT BREAKS BY	DESCRIPTION
Time Window	Will cause break punches to be detected relative to the employees' first punch of their shifts.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Start Window	Amount of time that must elapse after the employee's first punch before their next punch is defaulted to break.
For example, if an employee punches in at 8:00 AM and usually goes for Break between 9:30 AM and 11:00 AM, setting the start window to 1.5 hours would cause TimeTrex to interpret any punch that happens 1.5 hours after the first punch as being Break.
Window Length	The length of time after the Start Window that TimeTrex continues to default punches to Break. Outside this window, punches will default to Normal.
For example, if an employee normally starts their Break within a 1.5-hour window (between 9:30 AM and 11:00 AM), then you would set this value to 1.5 hours.


Punch Time (Proactive)	This field uses a minimum and maximum value to constrain the interval that an employee may take for a break. This will proactively detect break punches when the employee is punching out and allow break punch reminders to be used. You must specify two additional values, which are described below.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Punch Time	The minimum amount of time that an employee can punch out for will be determined to be break.
For example, if employees usually take a break that is around 15 minutes in length, you could set this value to 10 minutes.
Maximum Punch Time	The maximum amount of time that an employee can punch out for will be determined to be break.
For example if employees usually take a break that is around 15 minutes in length, you could set this value to 20 minutes.


Punch Time (Reactive)	This field uses a minimum and maximum value to constrain the interval that an employee may take for a break. This will reactively detect break punches when the employee is punching back in from break and break punch reminders will be disabled. You must specify two additional values, which are described below.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Punch Time	The minimum amount of time that an employee can punch out for will be determined to be break.
For example, if employees usually take a break that is around 15 minutes in length, you could set this value to 10 minutes.
Maximum Punch Time	The maximum amount of time that an employee can punch out for will be determined to be break.
For example if employees usually take a break that is around 15 minutes in length, you could set this value to 20 minutes.




Include Any Punched Time for Break	When Type is set to Auto-Add or Auto-Deduct, checking this box will cause TimeTrex to adjust the break time by the difference between what an employee punches and what the break policy defines. This is used when you pay employees for a 30-minute break, but want them to punch in and punch out so you can track if they take more then 30 minutes. You do not want to pay them for any time that exceeds the 30-minute interval.
For example, you want to pay employees for a maximum 30-minute break. With a 30-minute Auto-Add break policy, when an employee punches out for a 30-minute break, they will not (by default) be paid for that time because they are punched out, or off the clock. However, TimeTrex applies this break policy and adds 30 minutes to their total paid time so they are paid for a break. If the employee punches out for a 45-minute break, TimeTrex will only add 30 minutes of paid time. They will not be paid for the extra 15 minutes that they took for break.
Include Multiple Breaks	When Type is set to Auto-Add or Auto-Deduct, checking this box will allow TimeTrex to include multiple break punches when calculating the total break time.
For example, if you allow employees to take 30 minutes of break time at any point throughout the day, split into intervals (ie. three breaks in total, the first being 10 minutes, the second being 5 minutes, and the third being 15 minutes), this option will allow the employees' flexibility over when, how long, and how many breaks they can take.
Allocation Type	Specifies how the break time is allocated within the employees shift if they have worked in more than one cost center (Branch, Department, Job or Task).
ALLOCATION	DESCRIPTION
Proportional Distribution (Default)	Allocates the break time to each Branch, Department, Job, Task proportionally.
For example, if the employee worked a 10.25 hour day and .25 hour was auto-deducted for a break with 4.0 hours in Branch A, and 6.0 hours in Branch B, than 40% of the break time would be allocated to Branch A and 60% allocated to Branch B.
At Active After Time	Allocates the break time to the Branch, Department, Job, Task that the employee was working at when the Active After time occurred.
For example, if the Active After time was 2 hours, and the employee worked from 8AM to 10:15AM (2.25 hours) in Branch A and 10:15AM to 5:00PM in Branch B and the break was .50 hours, then 0.25 hours of the break would be allocated to Branch A and 0.25 to Branch B. In the rare event when there is no way to allocate the break time to a specific cost center, it will fall back to using the proportional distribution method.

Pay Code	Specifies the Pay Code that resulting time is recorded as.
Pay Formula Policy	Determines how resulting time is converted to dollars. If a Pay Formula Policy is not explicitly defined then the Pay Formula Policy assigned to the above selected Pay Code is used instead.

 
 

Schedule Policies
Schedule Policies provide a way to define specific other policies such as Meal Policies, Break Policies, Overtime Policies and Undertime Absence Policies that may be applied to an employees specific Scheduled Shift. Any policy that is specified in the Schedule Policy will override the same type of policy that is specified in Policy Groups.
For example, it can be used to apply a 30-minute Meal Policy to an employee's scheduled shift rather than the default 1 hour Meal Policy.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Schedule Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Meal Policy	Sets the Meal Policy that applies to any scheduled shift that is assigned to this policy.
Break Policy	Defines one or more Break Policies that applies to any scheduled shift that is assigned to this policy.
Regular Time Policy	Include or exclude Regular Time Policies, this is useful for manually applying special policies that cannot be determined automatically in some other way, and can instead be set manually on a per scheduled shift basis.
REGULAR TIME POLICY	DESCRIPTION
Include	Include Regular Time Policies that are not already applied to the employees Policy Group.
Exclude	Exclude Regular Time Policies that are already being applied by the employees Policy Group.


Overtime Policy	Include or exclude Overtime Policies, this is useful for manually applying special policies that cannot be determined automatically in some other way, and can instead be set manually on a per scheduled shift basis.
REGULAR TIME POLICY	DESCRIPTION
Include	Include Overtime Policies that are not already applied to the employees Policy Group.
Exclude	Exclude Overtime Policies that are already being applied by the employees Policy Group.


Premium Policy	Include or exclude Premium Policies, this is useful for manually applying special policies that cannot be determined automatically in some other way, and can instead be set manually on a per scheduled shift basis.
PREMIUM POLICY	DESCRIPTION
Include	Include Premium Policies that are not already applied to the employees Policy Group.
Exclude	Exclude Premium Policies that are already being applied by the employees Policy Group.


Full Shift Undertime Absence Policy	This policy is triggered if the employee doesn't punch in for their entire scheduled shift, at which point an absence entry will be made for the length of time that they were originally scheduled for.
Partial Shift Undertime Absence Policy	This policy triggers the recording of the difference between scheduled time and recorded worked time when the worked time is less than the scheduled time.
For example, if an employee was scheduled to work an 8-hour shift, and they only work 7 hours, this setting would record the 1 hour difference as an absence. Consequently, this absence could be paid, unpaid, or docked depending on the Pay Code settings. The primary use for this policy is for salaried employees who work less than their scheduled minimum, and the difference results in a docking of their pay. Another use is for drawing time from the time bank Accrual Policy of an employee who works less than what is scheduled.
Start/Stop Window	Sets the amount of time that TimeTrex will search for an employee's schedule if they happen to punch in before their schedule starts, or punch out after their schedule ends. This is very important if employees work split shifts. You should use a value between 1 and 2 hours.
For example, an employee could be scheduled to work from 8:00 AM to 12:00 PM and 4:00 PM to 8:00 PM. They punch in at 7:00 AM and punch out at 1:00 PM. In this case, the Start/Stop Window would need to be at least 1 hour for TimeTrex to associate those punches with the 8:00 AM to 12:00 PM scheduled shift.

 
 

Premium Policies
Premium policies provide a method for tracking time separately according to specific criteria, usually for the purpose of paying employees at different rates. The criteria can be specific days of the month, the time of day that an employee works, or specific Branches, Departments, Jobs and Tasks that an employee may work on.
For example, the use of premium policies is paying employees who work evening or weekend shifts, or for special work types, such as hazardous or dangerous pay.
NOTE:  Unlike Overtime Policies, where overtime calculates against regular time and a single overtime policy at a time, premium policies are non-exclusive.
For example, if you have a weekend premium policy and an evening premium policy, and the employee works an evening shift on a weekend, they could have double premium time hours than the time that they actually work.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Premium Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Type	There are many types of premium policies to choose from and depending on the type, there may be additional options on the main tab and the other tabs that you should consider.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Date/Time	Specify the criteria based on the date or time that an employee works.
Date/Time Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Start Date	The date on which this policy becomes active. If you don’t specify a date, then the policy is always active.
End Date	The date on which this policy becomes inactive. If you don’t specify a date, then the policy is always active.
Start Time	The time at which this policy becomes active. This is used for setting evening shift premiums.
End Time	The time when this policy becomes inactive.
Active After Daily (Regular) Hours	The minimum amount of regular time that an employee must work on a given day before this policy activates.
Active After Weekly (Regular) Hours	The minimum amount of regular time that an employee must work in a given week before this policy activates.
Effective Days	In this field you check off the days of the week that this policy is to be active. This is useful for weekend premiums.
Holidays	Specifies how to handle shifts that may fall on a holiday.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Have no effect	Holidays have no effect on this policy.
Always on Holidays	Shifts that fall on a holiday, even if the employee is not eligible for that holiday, will be included.
Never on Holidays	Ignore shifts that fall on a holiday.




Shift Differential	Shift differential policies allow you to pay employees at different rates depending on the branch, department, job, job group, task or task group they work.
Differential Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Selection Type	Defines the selection criteria for each field, either "All," "Only Selected," or "All Except Selected." If you choose "Only Selected" or "All Except Selected" you should select one or more items in the boxes below.
Exclude Default	Check the box to enable this option, which sets TimeTrex to ignore the Default Branch (as defined in each employee's record).
For example, if you want all employees who work outside their default branch to receive this premium, you can enable this option and set the selection type to All Branches.
Pay Code Policy	Defines which contributing pay code policy this applies to, after all other criteria has been applied.
For example, if you want to apply different premium rates of pay to regular time (ie: $1/hr) and overtime (ie: $1.50/hr), you would create two premium policies, one with Regular Time selected here, and another with Over Time selected here.


Meal Break	Choosing this type allows you to define the maximum time that an employee can work without a break before they receive additional compensation.
Meal/Break Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Active After Daily Hours	The minimum amount of regular time that an employee must work on a given day before this policy activates.
Maximum Time Without a Break	The maximum amount of time that an employee can work without lunch or a break.
Minimum Time Recognized As a Break	The minimum amount of time that an employee must take for lunch or break before it counts as a lunch or break and excludes the employee from this policy.
For example, this policy defines that if an employee doesn't take at least a 30 minute break after working 4 hours, they get paid for one additional hour. If you set this value to 30 minutes and the employee only takes a 15-minute break, they will still get paid for one additional hour.


Callback	Choosing this type will mean that you can compensate employees for callbacks to work before the amount of time you specify elapses between two successive shifts.
Callback Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Time Between Shifts	The minimum amount of time that must elapse between shifts.
First Shift Must Be At Least	The amount of time that the first shift must exceed before this policy activates.


Minimum Shift Time	By choosing this type, you can make a simple policy of the minimum amount of time that an employee will receive each shift.
Minimum Shift Time Criteria Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Shift Time	The minimum shift time that an employee will receive.
For example, if this value is set to 04:00 (4 hours) and the employee punches in for one hour, the employee will receive three hours of premium time to make the total work time and premium time equal to the value of the minimum shift time.
Minimum Time-off Between Shifts	The minimum time-off between shifts before an employee will receive premium time.
In the case of a split shift, for example, if the value is set to 02:00 (2 hours), the employee punches out at the end of one shift and then 3 hours later punches back in, the employee would receive premium time; however if the employee punched back in 1.5 hours after the punch out time the employee would not receive premium time.


Holiday	When this type is selected, it will apply to time employees work on a holiday, as defined by Holiday Policies.
Advanced	This type is a combination of the Date/Time and Shift Differential types. You will see both tabs related to those types appear, and you can set the options on both tabs.


Minimum Time	The minimum amount of premium time that the employee will receive.
For example, if you set the minimum to 4 hours and an employee only punches in for 2 hours, they will still receive 4 hours of premium time.
Maximum Time	The maximum amount of premium time that the employee will receive.
For example, if you set this to 1 hour and an employee punches in for 4 hours, they will receive only 1 hour of premium time.
Min/Max Time Resets	How often the Minimum/Maximum Time can be calculated, either Each Day or Each Punch.
For example, if Each Day with a Minimum Time of 1 hour is set and an employee punches into three jobs in that day they will receive 1 hour premium time. If Each Punch with a Minimum Time of 1 hour is set and an employee punches into three jobs in that day, they will receive 3 hours of premium time.
NOTE:  When using Min/Max Time Resets, Each Day, its based on the pay code. So if two premium policies both go to the same pay code, and one has a maximum of 4 hrs in a day, and other maximum of 2 hours in the day, it is an ambiguous situation and TimeTrex will max out at whichever is calculated first. Therefore, it is recommended to have each premium policy use a different pay code when using the "Each Day" setting to avoid ambiguity.
Include Partial Punches	Check this box to allow partial punches to match this policy.
For example, consider a case where the start time is set to 6:00 PM and an employee punches in at 10:00 AM and then punches out at 7:00 PM. If you don’t enable this feature, then the employee punch will not match the criteria for this policy and the employee will not receive any premium time. However, if you enable this feature, then partial punches may count towards premium time, so the employee would receive premium time from 6:00 PM to 7:00 PM, or one hour in total.
Contributing Shift Policy	Defines the shifts that are included in this policy calculation.
Pay Code	Specifies the Pay Code that resulting time is recorded as.
Pay Formula Policy	Determines how resulting time is converted to dollars. If a Pay Formula Policy is not explicitly defined then the Pay Formula Policy assigned to the above selected Pay Code is used instead.

 
 

Holiday Policies

You can setup holidays to support non-working time or payroll benefits, and to automatically record holiday time for employees after considering specific criteria such as the number of days in employment with the company prior to the holiday. With regular holiday policies, you can manually setup holidays each year. If you prefer more automation, you can setup Recurring Holidays, and then return to this feature to select from the Recurring Holidays drop-down list. TimeTrex allows you to enter these holidays one time and it will automatically apply them each year.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Holiday Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Type	There are three types of holiday: Standard, Advanced: Fixed, and Advanced: Average. When you choose a type, there are options on the main tab and other tabs that you need to consider.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Standard	Basic flat amount of time given to each employee.
Eligibility Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Employed Days	This field is for the minimum number of days that an employee must be employed before they are eligible for the holiday time under this policy.

Holiday Time Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Holiday Time	Is the amount of time, in hours and minutes, that the employee will receive as holiday time.
Absence Policy	The Absence Policy used to assign the holiday time.


Advanced: Fixed	Advanced eligibility criteria with a flat amount of time given to each employee.
Eligibility Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Employed Days	This is the minimum number of days that an employee must be employed before they are eligible for holiday time under this policy.
Employee Must Work At Least	With this setting, you specify the number of Calendar Days,Scheduled Days, or Holiday Week Days that the employee must work before and after the holiday. Calendar Days include weekends and holidays. Scheduled Days include only the days that the employee was actually scheduled to work. Holiday Week Days include only the week days that the holiday occurs on.
For example, if the holiday occurs on a Monday, then the employee will need to work at least X of the last Y Monday's).
On the Holiday, the Employee	TYPE	DESCRIPTION
May Work or May Not Work	Whether or not the employee works on the holiday, makes no difference to the eligibility.
Must Always Work	The employee must always work on the holiday to be eligible for the holiday time under this policy.
Must Never Work	The employee must never work on the holiday to be eligible for the holiday time under this policy.
Must Work (Only if Scheduled)	The employee must work only if scheduled to work on the holiday to be eligible for holiday time.
Must Not Work (Only if Scheduled Absent)	The employee must be scheduled absent and not work on the holiday to be eligible for holiday time.
Must Not Work (Must be Scheduled Absent)	The employee must be scheduled absent and must not work; both cases need to match.
Must Not Work (Must not be Scheduled)	The employee must not be scheduled to work or scheduled absent (no scheduled shift at all) and must not work; all three cases need to match.

Contributing Shift Policy	This is the contributing shift that is used to evaluate the eligibility criteria.

Holiday Time Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Holiday Time	This is the amount of time, in hours and minutes, that the employee will receive as holiday time.
Absence Policy	The Absence Policy used to assign the holiday time.


Advanced: Average	Advanced eligibility criteria with an averaging formula to calculate the amount of time given to each employee.
Eligibility Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Minimum Employed Days	This is the minimum number of days that an employee must be employed before they are eligible for the holiday time under this policy.
Employee Must Work At Least	With this setting, you specify the number of Calendar Days, Scheduled Days, or Holiday Week Days that the employee must work before and after the holiday. Calendar Days include weekends and holidays. Scheduled Days only include the days that the employee was actually scheduled to work. Holiday Week Days include only the week days that the holiday occurs on.
For example, if the holiday occurs on a Monday, then the employee will need to work at least X of the last Y Monday's).
On the Holiday, the Employee	TYPE	DESCRIPTION
May Work or May Not Work	Whether or not the employee works on the holiday, makes no difference to the eligibility.
Must Always Work	The employee must always work on the holiday to be eligible for the holiday time under this policy.
Must Never Work	The employee must never work on the holiday to be eligible for the holiday time under this policy.
Must Work (Only if Scheduled)	The employee must work only if scheduled to work on the holiday to be eligible for holiday time.
Must Not Work (Only if Scheduled Absent)	The employee must be scheduled absent and not work on the holiday to be eligible for holiday time.
Must Not Work (Must be Scheduled Absent)	The employee must be scheduled absent and must not work; both cases need to match.
Must Not Work (Must not be Scheduled)	The employee must not be scheduled to work or scheduled absent (no scheduled shift at all) and must not work; all three cases need to match.

Contributing Shift Policy	This is the contributing shift that is used to evaluate the eligibility criteria.

Holiday Time Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Total Time Over	Defines the number of calendar days, weeks or pay periods that will be used to calculate the total time the employee worked.
Average Time Over	Defines the divisor of the averaging calculation, by taking the total time the employee worked in the above field and dividing it by the value in this field. If the Worked Days Only box is checked, the divisor will be the number of days worked out of the days specified in above field.
Minimum Time	The minimum amount of time the employee receives on a holiday for which they are eligible.
Maximum Time	The maximum amount of time the employee receives on a holiday for which they are eligible.
Always Apply Over Time/Premium Policies	Enables Overtime Policies of type Holiday, even if the employee isn't eligible for the holiday from other criteria, such as minimum employed days or minimum days worked before or after the holiday.
Rounding Policy	This field is for the policy that is used to round the holiday time after the employee's average worked time is calculated.
Absence Policy	The Absence Policy used to assign the holiday time.




Default Schedule Status	Specifies how to handle employees scheduled shifts that occur on the holiday.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Absent	Employee will always be scheduled absent, using the Absence Policy specified.
Working	Employee will always be scheduled working.
Use Schedule	Status is never changed, and will always use whatever the employee is scheduled.

Recurring Holidays	Defines the recurring holidays that apply to this policy. The holidays in this drop-down list are setup in Recurring Holidays.
Display Holidays	Specify the number of days in advance to display holidays on schedules and timesheets, as well as for handling future pay periods that holidays may affect. It is recommended this number be greater than a year, for example 381.

NOTE:  At any time, supervisors can manually enter holiday time for individual employees—whether or not the day is a holiday.
Specific holiday dates can be added or modified at any time, by going to Policy -> Holiday Policies, clicking Edit on the specific Holiday Policy, then click on the Holidays tab. Keep in mind if you are adding or modifying holidays in the past you will have to recalculate employees timesheets.
 
 

Recurring Holidays
Recurring Holidays are holidays that repeat each year. TimeTrex allows you to enter these holidays just one time, and it automatically applies them in each subsequent year. The holidays you setup here feed the Recurring Holiday drop-down list that is found when you create the Holiday Policies.
Most holidays (especially those in North America) can be configured as recurring holidays; you will not need to remember to manually create them each year.
It is important to note that on a nightly basis, Recurring Holidays are automatically added to the Holiday tab in each Holiday Policy that the Recurring Holiday is assigned to. Therefore if you create or modify a Recurring Holiday it may not appear in that tab or on employees timesheets until the next day, or until 60 days prior to when the holiday is scheduled to occur. In order to add holidays retroactively or on a manual basis you must edit the Holiday Policy, click on the Holiday tab and create a new holiday record in this tab, then recalculate any employees timesheets that may be affected by this change.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Recurring Holiday Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Special Day	Used to determine special holidays that do not occur on a regular schedule, such as Good Friday or Easter.
Type	Specifies the type of recurring holiday.
TYPE	DESCRIPTION
Static	Holidays that occur on the same day of the same month each year.
Dynamic - Week Interval	Holidays that occur on a specific week on the same month each year.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Week Interval	The week of the month that the holiday occurs on.
For example, you might specify a Thanksgiving holiday as the 4th Thursday in November.
Day of Week	The day of the week that the holiday occurs on.


Dynamic - Pivot Day	Holidays that occur on or around another day of the same month each year.
For example, you might configure the holiday to occur on the Friday that occurs before the 8th day of May.
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Day of Week	The day of the week that the holiday occurs on.
Pivot Direction	This field determines whether the holiday occurs Before, After, On or Before, or On or After the Day of the Month.




Day Modifier	Specifies a recurring holiday that occurs relative to another holiday, either before or after. Commonly used for policies affecting overnight shifts that begin on one day and extend into a holiday. Example: If December 25 is the recurring holiday, set the Day Modifier to +1 to apply settings to December 26, or -1 for December 24.
Always on Week Day	This adjusts the holiday so it always occurs on a week day.

 
 
Expense Policies
Expense policies provide for a category of business expenses that have specific criteria, allowing for the recording and reimbursement of the expenses.
TIP:  This policy must be assigned to a Policy Group before it will become active. See Setting up Policies.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Expense Policy Tab
FIELD	DESCRIPTION
Name	Enter the name of the expense.
Description	Enter a description of the expense.
Type	Select the type of expense from the drop-down box.
Type	DESCRIPTION
Flat Amount	A set amount that does not vary.
Percent	A percentage of the amount.
Per Unit	An amount per each unit.
Tax (Percent)	Tax is a percentage of the amount.
Tax (Flat Amount)	Tax is a set amount that does not vary.


Minimum Amount	Enter the minimum amount allowable per individual expense.
Maximum Amount	Enter the maximum amount allowable per individual expense.
Taxes	Select the taxes from the drop-down box and click the right arrow to move them to the box on the right.
Require Receipt	Require Receipt	DESCRIPTION
Yes (Paper/Electronic)	A paper and electronic receipt is required.
Yes (Only Paper)	Only a paper receipt is required.
Yes (Only Electronic)	Only an electronic receipt is required.
No	No receipt is required.

Reimbursable	Click the box if this expense is reimbursable.
Pay Stub Account	Select the pay stub account from the drop-down box.
Product	Select the product from the drop-down box.


Policy Groups
You can use policy groups to apply specific policies to one or more employees. Later, you can reconfigure the application of these policies to new employees, or a different mix of employees. There is no limit to the number of policy groups that you may create and manage. However, you may only assign an employee to a single policy group at any given time.
For example, if you have employees who only work the night shift, and other employees who work only during the day shift, you could create two separate policy groups and define different policies (such as overtime or premium) for each distinct group. Another common policy group configuration is to designate employees who are exempt from overtime pay versus those employees who are not exempt from overtime.
WARNING:  Modifying policies or policy groups will only affect data that users add or modify after you commit the policy changes. To apply policy changes retroactively, you must recalculate employee timesheets by going to Attendance -> TimeSheet, then click on a punch cell, click on the three-dot More button  and then click on Recalculate TimeSheet.
See the Basic Operation section for details on viewing, adding, editing and deleting.
 
Recalculating TimeSheets (Applying Policies Retroactively)
Recalculating TimeSheets is only required when policies or wages have been modified and need to be applied retroactively.
To Recalculate a TimeSheet:
	Click Attendance, then click TimeSheet in the main menu.
	Click on the three-dot More button   and click ReCalculate TimeSheet.
	Follow the steps in the TimeSheet ReCalculation Wizard.
 
For safety reasons, rounding policies are not recalculated during this process, therefore to see the results of a rounding policy change or apply the rounding policy change retroactively, individual punches need to be re-saved.
To do this, click Attendance, then click the Punches in the main menu, select the number of punches you want to round, click Mass Edit (or Edit for just one punch) and click Save without making any changes. The results to the rounding policy change will then be visible.
 
WARNING:  It is recommended that retroactive rounding policy changes be done in small batches, because if punches are rounded in a way you're not expecting there is no undo and you will have to manually correct each individual punch.
 

Reports - Basic Operation
Configuring and Viewing a Report:
Selecting a built-in report template:
	Navigate to Report in the main menu, then click on a report category such as Employee Reports, Timesheet Reports, Payroll Reports, HR Reports.
	Select a Report, for example, Employee Information under the Employee category or TimeSheet Detail under TimeSheet Reports.
Customizing the report criteria:
	An inset page will appear with the following tabs Report, Setup, Chart, Custom Columns and Saved Reports.
	Set the criteria for the report from the fields on each tab:
	Report tab: 
	 Select the report Template from the drop-down menu that best matches the report you want to create.
	Customize the template criteria by modifying the Time Period, Display Columns, Group By, Sub-Total By and Sort By fields.
	 To customize your report further by filtering the data, you can add extra fields on the setup tab that are not part of the default template:
	Setup tab:
	Click on the Fields drop-down menu.
	Select any additional fields you would like to include in your report. The image below illustrates the Report > Setup tab > and the Fields drop-down boxes. These additional fields will now appear on the Report tab.
 
	Return to the Report tab:
	Expand the drop-down menu for each of the newly added fields to select the data you want to filter by.
Viewing the Report:
When you've finished configuring the report, view the report to confirm it meets your needs.
	Click View in the button bar to display the report.
	After viewing the report, close the Report View screen by clicking on the X in the top right corner.
 
Sample Report:
How to configure an Employee Report using the Contact Information template, filtered by Employee Title.
	Navigate to Report -> Employee Reports in the main menu.
	Click on the Employee Information report.
	On the open Report tab: 
	Template field - select the Contact Information by Employee.
	Display Columns field - to display different columns than the default columns, click on the drop-down box.
	Sort By field - to sort by different columns than the default columns or change to DESC (descending) order, click on the drop-down box.
	On the Setup tab:
	To add the Employee Title field to filter by, expand the Fields drop-down menu and move Employee Title to the Selected Items box.
	Return to the Report tab and expand the newly added Employee Title field and select the employee title (e.g. carpenter) you want to filter by.
	Click View in the button bar to display the report.
Saving Report Criteria:
NOTE:  Saved Reports store only the report criteria—such as time periods, display columns, group by, sort by and other filters—but not the output data generated by the report.
Saving the report criteria means you can reuse the same report configuration without needing to set it up again. This allows you to quickly generate updated data results while maintaining the same report format and layout.
To maximize efficiency, save a report with a relative time period (such as "last pay period," "last month," or "last quarter") instead of fixed dates. Using relative time periods are especially important if you are planning to schedule the report. For example, if you need a monthly TimeSheet Summary report, set the Time Period field to "Last Month". When you run the report at the beginning of each month, it will automatically include data from the previous month, saving you the hassle of manually selecting dates each time.
 
Once you've configured a report, follow the steps below to save the criteria as a Saved Report:
	Click Save in the button bar.
	Enter a Name for the report.
	If you want this criteria to be the default when you access this report again in the future, check the Default box.
	Enter a unique Description for the report.
	Again, click Save in the button bar. It will then appear on your Saved Reports tab and all saved reports are accessible from Report > Saved Reports in the main menu.
 
Saving the Report Output to your computer:
	Click on the View drop-down menu   and select either PDF or Excel format.
 
Sharing a Saved Report:
After a report is configured and saved, a copy of if can be shared with other employees, if both have permission. If the shared report is later modified, it must be re-shared to include the modifications.
To share a report with an employee, follow the steps below:
	Navigate to Report in the main menu and then Saved Reports.
	Click on the Share Report button in the top right of the screen to access the easy two-step Share Report Wizard.
1.	Select one of more saved report that you wish to share from the drop-down box.
2.	Select one of more employees to share the selected reports with from the drop-down box.
3.	Then click the green checkmark   to exit the wizard and send a copy of the report to the selected employees Saved Reports.
 
Viewing a Saved Report:
	Click on Report > Saved Reports from the main menu.
	Select a saved report from the list displayed.
	Click on Report in the button bar.
	Click on View in the button bar to see the report output data.
 
Editing the Criteria of a Saved Report:
	Click on Report > Saved Reports from the main menu.
	Select a saved report from the list displayed.
	Click on Report in the button bar.
	Change the criteria and then click Save, or Save as New to save a separate copy of the report criteria with a new name.
 
Editing the Name and Description of a Saved Report:
	Click on Report > Saved Reports from the main menu.
	Select a saved report from the list displayed.
	Click on the Edit button in the Reports button bar.
	Make changes to the Name and Description of the report and then click the Save button.
 
Deleting a Saved Report:
	Click on Report > Saved Reports from the main menu.
	Select the saved report from the list displayed.
	Click on the Delete button in the Reports button bar and verify by clicking Yes or cancel by clicking No.
If an employee receives a Shared Report, they can still access it even if the original report is deleted, as it is a copy of the original.
 
Employee Report - Whos In Summary
MAIN MENU >   Report > Employee Reports > Whos In Summary
The Whos In Summary Report shows employee punches in or out for a specified period. It is most often used as a real-time report that provides a snapshot of the current attendance status of employees. This report shows which employees are currently clocked in and which ones are clocked out (not working, or on break). It is often used by managers and supervisors to monitor workforce availability. It can also be used in case of an emergency such as a fire, to know who is currently on-site.
TIP:  The Whos In/Out dashlet on the Dashboard, by default, displays the Whos In Summary Report and the Punches By Status template to list those employees who punched in or out in the last 24 hours.
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
Whos In Summary Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Punches By Status	Shows punches grouped by punch status.
Punches By Type	Shows punches grouped by punch type.
Punches By Status/Type	Shows punches, first grouped by punch status and then by punch type.
Punches By Type/Status	Shows punches, first grouped by punch type and then by punch status.
Punches By Employee	Shows punches grouped by employees.
Punches By Default Branch	Shows punches grouped by default branch.
Punches By Default Department	Shows punches grouped by default department.
Punches By Default Branch/Department	Shows punches, first grouped by default branch and then by default department.
Punches By Branch	Shows punches by branch.
Punches By Department	Shows punches by department.
Punches By Branch/Department	Shows punches, first grouped by branch and then by department.
Punches By Station	Show punches grouped by station.
Punches By Station Type	Shows punches grouped by station type.
Punches By Job/Task	Shows punches, first grouped by job and then by task.
 Employee Information Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > Employee Reports > Employee Information
The Employee Information Report provides detailed personal and employment-related information about each employee within the system. This report typically includes data such as the employee's name, employee number, branch, department, job title, contact information, hire date and termination date. It may also include additional details like pay rate, employment status, permission and policy group, pay period schedule and length of service.
This report is useful for HR and management to maintain accurate and up-to-date records, facilitate payroll processing, and manage workforce data effectively. It's often used as a reference for employee information and for generating other reports that rely on employee data.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
Employee Information Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Contact Information By Employee	Shows employee contact information grouped by employee.
Employment Information By Employee	Shows employment information for employees grouped by employee.
New Hires By Employee	Shows employees new hire information grouped by employee.
Addresses By Employee	Shows employee addresses grouped by employee.
Wages By Employee	Shows employee wages grouped by employee.
Bank Information By Employee	Shows employee bank information grouped by employee.
Preferences By Employee	Shows employee preferences grouped by employee.
Birthdays By Employee	Shows employee birthdays grouped by employee.
Contact Information By Branch/Employee	Shows employee contact information, first grouped by branch and then by department.
Addresses By Branch/Employee	Shows employee addresses, first grouped by branch and then by employee.
Wages by Branch/Employee	Shows employee wages, first grouped by branch and then by employee.
Total Employees by Branch	Shows the total number of employees grouped by branch.
Contact Information By Department/Employee	Shows employee contact information, first grouped by department and then by employee.
Addresses By Department/Employee	Shows employee addresses, first grouped by department and then by employee.
Wages by Department/Employee	Shows employee wages, first grouped by department and then by employee.
Total Employees by Department	Shows the total number of employees grouped by department.
Contact Information By Branch/Department/Employee	Shows employee contact information, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by employee.
Addresses By Branch/Department/Employee	Shows employee addresses, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by employee.
Wages by Branch/Department/Employee	Shows employee wages, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by employee.
Total Employees by Branch/Department	Shows the total number of employees, first grouped by branch and then by department.
Contact Information By Hierarchy/Branch/Department/Employee	Shows contact information, first grouped by hierarchy, then by branch, then by department and then by employee.
Wages By Type/Employee	Shows employee wages, first grouped by wage type and then by employee.
Total Employees by Wage Type	Shows the total number of employees grouped by wage type.
Total Employees Hired By Month	Shows the total number of employees hired grouped by month.
Total Employees Terminated By Month	Shows the total number of employees terminated grouped by month.
Retention/Turnover by Branch/Department	Shows employee retention rate and employee turnover rate, first grouped by branch and then by department.
Total Employees By Gender/Ethnicity/Title	Shows the total number of employees, first grouped by gender, then by ethnicity and then by employee title.
 Audit Trail Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > Employee Reports > Audit Trail
The Audit Trail Report is a comprehensive log that records all actions and changes made within the system. It tracks who performed each action (employee), what was changed (object), how was it changed (actions such as add, edit or delete), when the changes occurred (date/time) and the specifics of those changes (description). This can include modifications to employee information, schedules, time punches, policies, payroll data, requests, stations or any other element within the system.
The report is essential for ensuring transparency, accountability, and compliance with organizational policies and legal requirements. It helps administrators monitor system usage, identify potential issues or unauthorized changes, and maintain the integrity of workforce data. This report is often used during audits, investigations, or reviews to verify that all actions within the system are properly documented and traceable.
Whenever records are edited, the Audit log is conveniently accessible from the Audit tab. The following image shows the audit history of a department.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
Audit Trail Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Audit By Date	Shows audit records grouped by date.
Audit By Employee	Shows audit records grouped by employee.
Audit By Object	Shows audit records grouped by object (elements of the system).
Audit By Action	Shows audit records grouped by action (add, edit, delete).
Audit Records By Object/Action/Employee	Shows audit records, first grouped by object, then by action and then by employee.
Schedule Summary Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > TimeSheet Reports > Schedule Summary
A Schedule Summary Report provides an overview of employee scheduled work time and absence time over a specified period. This report assists in workforce planning and budgeting by providing insights into staffing patterns, shift coverage and projected labor costs.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
Schedule Summary Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Work Time by Employee	Scheduled work time grouped by employee.
Work Time+Wage by Employee	Scheduled work time plus wage grouped by employee.
Work Time+Wage by Title	Scheduled work time plus wage grouped by employee title.
Work Time+Wage by Date/Employee	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by date and then by employee.
Work Time+Wage by Employee/Date	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by date.
Work Time+Wage by Branch	Scheduled work time plus wage grouped by branch.
Work Time+Wage by Department	Scheduled work time plus wage grouped by department.
Work Time+Wage by Branch/Department	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by department.
Work Time+Wage by Pay Period	Scheduled work time plus wage grouped by pay period.
Work Time+Wage by Pay Period/Employee	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by employee.
Work Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by branch.
Work Time+Wage by Pay Period/Department	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by department.
Work Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch/Department	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by pay period, then by branch and then by department.
Work Time+Wage by Employee/Pay Period	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by pay period.
Work Time+Wage by Branch/Pay Period	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by pay period.
Work Time+Wage by Department/Pay Period	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by department and then by pay period.
Work Time+Wage by Branch/Department/Pay Period	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by pay period.
Work Time+Wage+Total Shifts by Title/Start Time	Scheduled work time plus wage plus total shifts, first grouped by employee title and then by start time.
Work Time+Wage+Total Shifts by Date/Title	Scheduled work time plus wage plus total shifts, first grouped by date and then by employee title.
Absence Time by Employee	Scheduled absence time grouped by employee.
Absence Time+Wage by Employee	Scheduled absence time plus wage grouped by employee.
Absence Time+Wage by Title	Scheduled absence time plus wage grouped by employee title.
Absence Time+Wage by Date/Employee	Scheduled absence time plus wage, first grouped by date and then by employee.
Absence Time+Wage by Employee/Date	Scheduled absence time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by date.
Absence Time+Wage by Branch	Scheduled absence time plus wage grouped by branch.
Absence Time+Wage by Department	Scheduled absence time plus wage grouped by department.
Absence Time+Wage by Branch/Department	Scheduled absence time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by department.
Absence Time+Wage by Pay Period	Scheduled absence time plus wage grouped by pay period.
Absence Time+Wage by Pay Period/Employee	Scheduled absence time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by employee.
Work Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by branch.
Work Time+Wage by Pay Period/Department	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by department.
Work Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch/Department	Scheduled work time plus wage, first grouped by pay period, then by branch and then by department.
Absence Time+Wage by Employee/Pay Period	Scheduled absence time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by pay period.
Absence Time+Wage by Branch/Pay Period	Scheduled absence time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by pay period.
Absence Time+Wage by Department/Pay Period	Scheduled absence time plus wage, first grouped by department and then by pay period.
Absence Time+Wage by Branch/Department/Pay Period	Scheduled absence time plus wage, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by pay period.
Total Employees Scheduled By Date/Hour of Day	Total employee hours scheduled, first grouped by date and then by hour of the day. Helpful to identify staffing patterns, optimize coverage, and manage labor costs.
Total Employees Scheduled By Day of Week/Hour of Day	Total employee hours scheduled, first grouped by day of the week and then by hour of the day. Helpful to identify staffing patterns, optimize coverage, and manage labor costs.
 
TimeSheet Summary Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > TimeSheet Reports > TimeSheet Summary
A TimeSheet Summary Report consolidates the data from employee timesheets to give a clear summary of all time worked by employees including regular hours, overtime, absence time and premium time over a specific period of time such as each pay period. It can also include wages corresponding to the time worked. The Timesheet Summary Report is essential for payroll processing, as it provides the accurate data needed to calculate employee wages. It also helps managers and HR professionals monitor attendance, ensure compliance with labor regulations, and manage labor costs effectively.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
TimeSheet Summary Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
All Time by Employee	Shows overall time (regular, overtime, absence time and premium time) grouped by employee.
All Time by Date/Employee	Shows overall time, first grouped by date and then by employee.
All Time by Employee/Date	Shows overall time, first grouped by employee and then by date.
All Time by Branch	Shows overall time grouped for branch.
All Time by Department	Shows overall time grouped by department.
All Time by Branch/Department	Shows overall time, first grouped by branch and then by department.
All Time by Pay Period	Shows overall time grouped by pay period.
All Time by Pay Period/Employee	Shows overall time, first grouped by pay period and then by employee.
All Time by Pay Period/Branch	Shows overall time, first grouped by pay period and then by branch.
All Time by Pay Period/Department	Shows overall time, first grouped by pay period and then by department.
All Time by Pay Period/Branch/Department	Shows overall time, first grouped by pay period, then by branch and then by department.
All Time by Employee/Pay Period	Shows overall time, first grouped by employee and then by pay period.
All Time by Branch/Pay Period	Shows overall time, first grouped by branch and then by pay period.
All Time by Department/Pay Period	Shows overall time, first grouped by department and then by pay period.
All Time by Branch/Department/Pay Period	Shows overall time, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Employee	Shows overall time plus wage grouped by employee.
All Time+Wage by Date/Employee	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by date and then by employee.
All Time+Wage by Employee/Date	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by date.
All Time+Wage by Branch	Shows overall time plus wage grouped by branch.
All Time+Wage by Department	Shows overall time plus wage grouped by department.
All Time+Wage by Branch/Department	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by department.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period	Shows overall time plus wage grouped by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period/Employee	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by employee.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by branch.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period/Department	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by department.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch/Department	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by pay period, then by branch and then by department.
All Time+Wage by Employee/Pay Period	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Branch/Pay Period	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Department/Pay Period	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by department and then by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Branch/Department/Pay Period	Shows overall time plus wage, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by pay period.
Timesheet Verification by Pay Period/Employee	Shows employee timesheet verification status, first grouped by pay period and then by employee.
Timesheet Verification by Verification/Pay Period/Employee	Shows employee timesheet verification status, first grouped by verification status, then by pay period and then by employee.
 

TimeSheet Detail Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > TimeSheet Reports > TimeSheet Detail
A TimeSheet Detail report is an in-depth report that provides a detailed breakdown of an employee's time records for a specific period. Unlike a Timesheet Summary Report, the Timesheet Detail Report offers a granular day-by-day view including regular time, overtime, absence time and premium time. This report provides managers and HR professionals a comprehensive view of hours worked by employees that is essential for auditing purposes, payroll processing, ensuring compliance with labor regulations, and managing labor costs effectively.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
TimeSheet Detail Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
All Time by Employee	Shows all time (regular, overtime, absence and premium time) grouped by employee.
All Time by Date/Employee	Shows all time, first grouped by date and then by employee.
All Time by Employee/Date	Shows all time, first grouped by employee and then by date.
All Time by Branch	Shows all time grouped for branch.
All Time by Department	Shows all time grouped by department.
All Time by Branch/Department	Shows all time, first grouped by branch and then by department.
All Time by Pay Period	Shows all time grouped by pay period.
All Time by Pay Period/Employee	Shows all time, first grouped by pay period and then by employee.
All Time by Pay Period/Date/Employee	Shows all time, first grouped by pay period, then by date and then by employee.
All Time by Pay Period/Branch	Shows all time, first grouped by pay period and then by branch.
All Time by Pay Period/Department	Shows all time, first grouped by pay period and then by department.
All Time by Pay Period/Branch/Department	Shows all time, first grouped by pay period, then by branch and then by department.
All Time by Employee/Pay Period	Shows all time, first grouped by employee and then by pay period.
All Time by Branch/Pay Period	Shows all time, first grouped by branch and then by pay period.
All Time by Department/Pay Period	Shows all time, first grouped by department and then by pay period.
All Time by Branch/Department/Pay Period	Shows all time, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by pay period.
All Time by Employee/Day of Week	Shows all time, first grouped by employee and then day of the week.
All Time+Wage by Employee	Shows all time plus wage grouped by employee.
All Time+Wage by Date/Employee	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by date and then by employee.
All Time+Wage by Employee/Date	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by date.
All Time+Wage by Branch	Shows all time plus wage grouped by branch.
All Time+Wage by Department	Shows all time plus wage grouped by department.
All Time+Wage by Branch/Department	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by department.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period	Shows all time plus wage grouped by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period/Employee	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by employee.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period/Date/Employee	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by pay period, then by date and then by employee.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by branch.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period/Department	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by department.
All Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch/Department	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by pay period, then branch and then by department.
All Time+Wage by Employee/Pay Period	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Branch/Pay Period	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Department/Pay Period	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by department and then by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Branch/Department/Pay Period	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by pay period.
All Time+Wage by Employee/Day of Week	Shows all time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by day of the week.
Schedule Differences by Employee/Date	Shows the difference between schedules and worked hours, first grouped employee and then by date.
Total Employees Worked by Date/Hour of Day	Shows the total hours worked for all employees, first grouped by date and then by hour of the day.
Total Employees Worked by Day of Week/Hour of Day	Shows the total hours worked for all employees, first grouped by day of the week and then by hour of the day.
Punch Summary Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > TimeSheet Reports > Punch Summary
A Punch Summary Report provides a summary of employee punch times for a specific period. This report includes data about employees specific punch in and out times and the stations they used to punch.
WARNING:  The total time displayed on the Punch Summary Report represents the exact duration between punches and does not consider policies such as auto-deductions for meals or breaks, overtime, absences, or premium time. To obtain total worked time data, refer to the TimeSheet Detail report.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
Punch Summary Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Punch Summary by Employee	Shows total punch time grouped by employee.
Punch Summary by Branch	Shows total punch time grouped by branch.
Punch Summary by Department	Shows total punch time grouped by department.
Punch Summary by Branch/Department	Shows total punch time, first grouped by branch and then department.
Punch Summary by Pay Period	Shows total punch time grouped by pay period.
Punch Summary by Date	Shows total punch time grouped by date.
Punch Summary by Station	Shows total punch time grouped by station.
Punch Summary+Notes by Employee	Shows total punch time plus notes grouped by employee.
Punch Summary+Actual Time by Employee	Shows total punch time plus actual time grouped by employee.
Punch/Station Detail by Employee	Shows total punch time and station detail grouped by employee.
Punch Summary by Job	Shows total punch time grouped by job.
Punch Summary by Task	Shows total punch time grouped by task.
Punch Summary by Job/Task	Shows total punch time, first grouped by job and then by task.
Punch Summary by Job Branch	Shows total punch time grouped by job branch.
Punch Summary by Job Branch/Department	Shows total punch time, first grouped by job branch and then by department.
Punch Summary by Job Group	Shows total punch time grouped by job group.
Actual Time by Employee	Shows total actual punch time grouped by employee.
Tainted Punches by Employee	Shows total tainted punches grouped by employee.
Timesheet Verification Tainted	Shows total tainted timesheet verifications.
Punch Images by Employee	Shows punch images grouped by employee.
 
 
Accrual Balance Summary Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > TimeSheet Reports > Accrual Balance Summary
An accrual balance report tracks employees' accumulated leave, including vacation, personal time off (PTO) and sick leave. It provides details on leave types, accrued amounts, usage, and remaining balances (depending on the Time Period selected), assisting both employees and managers in planning time off. This report ensures compliance with leave policies and labor laws, accurate payroll processing and aids in financial planning by identifying leave liabilities.
NOTE:  For an overall view of an employee's accrual balances the time period is critical. Consider using the "Overall Balance" template, selecting "All Years" time period to ensure all accrual records that make up the final balance are included in the report. Final balances can be also be viewed from Attendance > Accrual Balances.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
Accrual Balance Summary Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Accruals By Account	Shows accruals grouped by accounts.
Accruals By Type	Shows accruals grouped by type.
Accruals By Type/Employee	Shows accruals grouped first by type and then employee.
Accruals By Account/Employee	Shows accruals grouped first by account and then employee.
Accruals By Account/Type/Employee	Shows accruals grouped first by account, then by type and then employee.
Accruals By Account/Type/Employee/Date	Shows accruals grouped first by account, then type, then employee and then date.
Accruals By Account/Type/Date	Shows accruals grouped first by account, then type and then date.
Accruals By Employee/Account	Shoes accruals grouped first by employee and then account.
Overall Balance To Date	Provides the overall accrual balance to date. For accrual balances (including past and a year into the future), use the Time Period, All Years or the Overall Balance Template.
Overall Balance	Provides the overall accrual balance. The default Time Period is All Years, which includes the past and a year into the future..
 
 
 

Exception Summary Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > TimeSheet Reports > Exception Summary
An Exception Summary Report provides managers and HR professionals with deviations or irregularities in employee time and attendance records that may need to be addressed, ensuring that attendance records are accurate and that any issues are resolved promptly. These exceptions could include missed punches, late arrivals/early departures, extended breaks, overtime and unscheduled absences.
This report helps identify undesirable attendance patterns, supports compliance with company policies and labor laws, and ensures accurate payroll processing.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
Exception Summary Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Exceptions by Severity	Shows exceptions grouped by severity.
Exceptions by Name	Shows exceptions grouped by name.
Exceptions by Pay Period	Shows exceptions grouped by pay period.
Exceptions by Employee/Severity/Name	Shows exceptions, first grouped by employee, then by severity and then by name.
Exceptions by Severity/Name/Employee	Shows exception, first grouped by severity, then by name and then by employee.
Exceptions by Severity/Name/Day of Week	Shows exceptions, first grouped by severity, then by name and then by day of the week.
 

Pay Stub Summary Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > Payroll Reports > Pay Stub Summary
A Pay Stub Summary report shows the earnings, deductions, accruals and net pay from employee pay stubs and pay stub accounts over a specific time period. This report is an important tool for employers to detect discrepancies, analyze labor costs, manage budgets and provide data for strategic decision-making.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
Pay Stub Summary Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Pay Stubs Pending Payment	Shows all pay stubs that have been generated but not yet paid. It may include details such as Employee ID, pay stub period and amounts due.
Totals by Employee	Aggregates payroll totals for each employee over a specified period. This would include gross pay, net pay, taxes withheld, and other deductions or contributions for employees.
Earnings by Employee	Breaks down all forms of earnings for each employee, such as regular pay, overtime, bonuses, and other earnings types, typically over a specified period.
Deductions by Employee	Shows all deductions from each employee's pay, such as taxes, retirement contributions, health insurance premiums, and any other payroll deductions.
Employer Contributions by Employee	Lists the contributions made by the employer on behalf of each employee, which could include insurance premiums, retirement fund matching, and other employer-paid benefits.
Accruals by Employee	Shows the accrual of time off or leave balances for each employee, detailing amounts earned, used, and the current available balance.
Accrual Balances by Employee	Provides a snapshot of the remaining balances of accrued time off or other benefits for each employee, typically displaying remaining sick leave, vacation time, etc.
All Accounts by Employee	A comprehensive report detailing each employee's payroll transactions across all accounts, including earnings, deductions, contributions, and accruals.
Totals by Title	Shows overall payroll costs for Employee Titles.
Totals by Group	Shows overall payroll costs for Employee Groups.
Totals by Branch	Shows overall payroll costs for Branches.
Totals by Department	Shows overall payroll costs for Departments.
Totals by Branch/Department	Shows overall payroll costs for Branch and then Departments.
Totals by Pay Period	Shows overall payroll costs for Pay Periods.
Totals by Pay Period/Employee	Shows Pay Periods with overall payroll costs for Employees.
Totals by Employee/Pay Period	Shows Employees with overall payroll costs for Pay Periods.
Totals by Branch/Pay Period	Shows Branches with overall payroll costs for Pay Periods.
Totals by Department/Pay Period	Shows Departments with overall payroll costs for Pay Periods.
Totals by Branch/Department/Pay Period	Shows Branches and Departments with overall payroll costs for Pay Periods.
 
 
 
 

Pay Stub Transaction Summary Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > Payroll Reports > Pay Stub Transaction Summary
A Pay Stub Transaction Summary report provides a record of payments made to employees, pending payments or stopped payments within a defined time frame. Comparable to a cheque register, this report is a valuable resource for employers in reconciling payroll transactions with bank account records.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
Pay Stub Transaction Summary Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Pending Transactions	All pay stub transactions that have been initiated, but not yet deposited to employees bank accounts or printed in the case of checks.
Pending Check Transactions	Only pay stub check transactions that have been initiated, but not yet printed.
Pending EFT/ACH Transactions	Only pay stub EFT/ACH transactions that have been initiated, but not yet deposited into the employees bank accounts.
Stopped Transactions	Pay stub transactions that were initiated and then stopped and will not be processed.
Paid Transactions	Pay stub transactions that have been fully processed. Checks have been printed and direct deposits to the employee bank accounts have been made.
 

Payroll Export Report
MAIN MENU >   Report > Payroll Reports > Payroll Export
A Payroll Export report details employees' time worked and earnings over a specified period. It is used to export this data into third-party payroll software for payroll processing. The Payroll Export Report's Export Setup tab offers various export formats to suit different software requirements as well as Generic Excel/CVS and CMS Payroll Based Journal (PBJ).
NOTE:  If you are using TimeTrex for processing payroll this report is not necessary.
 
See Reports for information common to all reports.
 
Payroll Export Report Templates
TEMPLATE	DESCRIPTION
Total Time by Employee	Shows total time grouped by employee.
Total Time by Date/Employee	Shows total time, first grouped by date and then by employee.
Total Time by Employee/Date	Shows total time first, grouped by employee and then by date.
Total Time by Branch	Shows total time by branch.
Total Time by Department	Shows total time by department.
Total Time by Branch/Department	Shows total time, first grouped by branch and then department.
Total Time by Pay Period	Shows total time for pay period.
Total Time by Pay Period/Employee	Shows total time, first grouped by pay periods and then by employees.
Total Time by Pay Period/Branch	Shows total time, first grouped by pay periods and then by branch.
Total Time by Pay Period/Department	Shows total time, first grouped by pay periods and then by department.
Total Time by Pay Period/Branch/Department	Shows total time, first grouped by pay periods, then by branch and then by department.
Total Time by Employee/Pay Period	Shows total time, first grouped by employee and then by pay period.
Total Time by Branch/Pay Period	Shows total time, first grouped by branch and then by pay period.
Total Time by Department/Pay Period	Shows total time, first grouped by department and then by pay period.
Total Time by Branch/Department/Pay Period	Shows total time, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by pay period.
Total Time+Wage by Employee	Shows total time plus wage grouped by employee.
Total Time+Wage by Date/Employee	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by date and then by employee.
Total Time+Wage by Employee/Date	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by date.
Total Time+Wage by Branch	Shows total time plus wage grouped by branch.
Total Time+Wage by Department	Shows total time plus wage grouped by department.
Total Time+Wage by Branch/Department	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by department.
Total Time+Wage by Pay Period	Shows total time plus wage grouped by pay period.
Total Time+Wage by Pay Period/Employee	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by employee.
Total Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by branch.
Total Time+Wage by Pay Period/Department	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by pay period and then by department.
Total Time+Wage by Pay Period/Branch/Department	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by pay period, then by branch and then by department.
Total Time+Wage by Employee/Pay Period	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by employee and then by pay period.
Total Time+Wage by Branch/Pay Period	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by branch and then by pay period.
Total Time+Wage by Department/Pay Period	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by department and then by pay period.
Total Time+Wage by Branch/Department/Pay Period	Shows total time plus wage, first grouped by branch, then by department and then by pay period.
Timesheet Verification by Pay Period/Employee	Shows employee timesheet verification status, first grouped by pay period and then by employee.
Timesheet Verification by Verification/Pay Period/Employee	Shows employee timesheet verification status, first grouped by verification status, then by pay period and then by employee.
 
 
 


 
 




